The Fed's in a difficult position, but
it's certainly taking a risk. By
lowering interest rates,
>> they have room to maneuver. They have
room to come down some on the policy
rate and still put downward pressure on
inflation.
>> The flattening that we've seen is a bit
of a buy the rumor, sell the news on the
back of the Fed.
>> The Fed is cutting on risk management
grounds into what may be the early
stages of a cyclical reaceleration. You
kind of have the benefits of fat cuts
without the penalty.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, adding to all-time highs,
the S&P 500 posting its 28th record of
the year so far as Nvidia is revealing
some big plans to invest 100 billion in
open AI. Investors are shaking off
concerns about a very divided Federal
Reserve. It's Chel up next.
>> Yeah, he speaks later today. And the
question is, will anyone listen? Does
anyone care? Because ultimately, what we
heard yesterday from a number of Fed
presidents was we're not eager about
cutting rates in October. were not eager
about cutting rates aggressively. We're
very worried about inflation whether it
was Beth Hammock, whether it was Raphael
Bowstick or was it whether it was
Alberto Busulum. And guess what? The
market doesn't care because the market's
looking to 2026 and these members have
less clout in the market's eyes.
>> There's a lot of daylight between them
and one man, Governor Myron. Governor
Min wants to get back to neutral. Get
back to neutral fast. How much daylight
is there between him and Chairman Pal?
>> There's a lot of daylight. and he says
he he's going to continue to descent at
every single meeting if he has to as
long as his view does not change. So
basically, we have what the future will
look like in 2026. Whether or not Steve
Meyer stays on the board after January,
that remains to be seen. But his
thinking that will continue, which makes
it really difficult for Jay Powell today
to talk about, you know, consensus
building at the Fed because guess what?
There's now an active debate at the Fed.
There's no longer a consensus think
tank, Federal Reserve. It makes it
difficult to go against this market as
well. This came from Bruce Richards of
Marathon Asset Management. I think the
next Fed chair is going to do probably
QE with a twist and the twist is buying
long-term treasuries to bring those
rates down. It's going to be a bonanza
looking forward, not looking back.
>> And that's what a lot of people have
been saying that almost 100% of the time
when the Fed cuts rates, we're not in a
recession. The market's up and up
materially since then. And this raises
this question that a lot of people have
been asking on the show. When are we in
a bubble? And if we're in a bubble, do
you keep buying? Because ultimately
bubbles tend to go up a lot longer than
people think. But at what point are we
overinflating asset valuations at a time
where no one can see the scenario where
anything can go down because everyone's
spending money, central banks are
cutting, you know, it's nirvana for
risk.
>> Hello, Nvidia. A 100 billion investment
in open AI to help them build out and
spend money on Nvidia. Is that how this
works? Nvidia this morning down by 610
of 1%.
>> Wonderfully stated. There is a fear that
this is incredibly circular.
Essentially, Nvidia giving a hundred
billion dollars to OpenAI to invest in
data centers that are crafted by guess
who? Nvidia. If they feel like this is a
proper partnership, on one hand, you can
make an argument this is just supporting
an ecosystem that's going to evolve. On
the other hand, how circular, how
self-referential is this industry
becoming if some of these big uh chip
providers are essentially lending money
to their clients to buy more chips?
Nvidia chips are basically on sale for
OpenAI. New Street Research says for
every $10 million Nvidia invest in
OpenAI. The startup will spend $ 35
billion on Nvidia chips. So basically,
we're going to give you this money, you
have to buy our chips, you're going to
get them at a discount.
>> We've got a lot to talk about coming up
this hour. Keith Lerner of Truist on
another major AI deal. We'll speak to
George Pollock of Signnum on a divided
Federal Reserve and Ed Helseni of
Colombia Thread Needle as the US pledges
support for Mille's Argentina. We begin
this hour with stocks reaching fresh
all-time highs following Nvidia's 100
billion investment in open AI. Keith
Lerner of Truist writing, "The bull
market continues to earn the benefit of
doubt aided by S&P 500 earnings at
record highs. The S&P is in a longer
than its average period without a 5%
pullback, thus vulnerable to bad news.
Keith joins us now for more. Keith,
welcome to the program, buddy. Let's get
to it. This deal, Nvidia, a $100 billion
investment in Open AI. Are we looking at
a house of cards or the real deal?
>> Yeah. Well, the first great to be with
you. I mean, it does raise a little bit
of red flags longer term, but uh, you
know, in the short term, I don't think
this really um is a negative. In fact,
it's a positive because it's going to
float into earnings. And as you just
mentioned in in our writeup, I mean, the
key driver of this bull market has been
AI, AI, and tech. And the key driver for
the overall market has been those
earnings from these companies. And this
isn't going to change that, at least in
the near term. And then as you think
about Jensen Wong and his projections
for 2030, he thinks infrastructure
spending is going to be, you know, 3 to
four trillion versus about 600 billion
today. So, does it raise some, you know,
eyebrows a little bit? Sure. But in the
in the near term, you know, I think this
means that earnings continue to move up
and that continues to support this tech
trade and the overall market.
>> Well, how sustainable, Keith, are those
earnings if those earnings are just off
the back of some big investment from one
big company?
>> Well, it is, you know, to one big
company, but it is also, I mean, at this
point, we're also thinking that we're
going to see this, you know, broaden
out. And even though these AI stocks
have done really well, the
infrastructure spend that I mentioned
still has a ways to go. So listen, as we
look at the overall market, if we
overlay the tech market relative price
strength to the overall market and we
overlay that with earnings, there's a
very strong relationship that
relationship has shown no signs of
slowing down. And ultimately, I think
this band will borden out as as well. So
again, it's something that we're
sticking with. We think that this uh not
only does the bull market deserve the
benefit of the doubt, tech deserves the
benefit of the doubt as well. What would
raise a red flag for you, Keith, given
the fact that so many people who we've
talked to say that they can't really
even come up with a risk scenario that
could sty some of the gains that we've
seen in big tech and the broader
markets?
>> Well, it's what you just brought up,
Lisa. I mean, expectations are high. You
know, if you look at most things, the
market has been numb to me negative to
negative news. you know, maybe it's
something from left field, but I'm also
reminded by, you know, Peter Lynch's old
quote that, you know, more money has
been lost in anticipation of the
correction than the correction itself.
Um, you know, this morning you you all
led with the amount of new highs in the
market this year, 28 new highs for the
S&P. When we test that out, looking at
the fourth quarter, when you've seen 25
new highs heading to that fourth
quarter, the fourth quarter averages a
gain of about 5%. It's up about 89% of
the time. Now, that's not a guarantee,
but it does tell you that momentum that
we see leading up into the fourth
quarter tends to continue. Does that
mean we're not going to see a hiccup,
something that we're not talking about
to kind of, you know, give us all a gut
check? We'll probably see one along the
way, but I want to stick with that
primary trend, especially as the
economy, we think, actually moves up a
little bit. We've seen the 10-year come
down off the highs as well. We have the
Fed cutting rates, and we also have the
stimulus bill that's actually offsetting
somewhat some of the tariffs. So all in
all, I think it's a decent environment
for risk assets
>> and people thought that we'd get that
gut check in September and everyone
bought that gut check, so we never had
it. There is this question about also
the Fed rate cuts and how much that's a
supportive element to what we're seeing
right now in markets. You point out that
when the Fed is cutting rates, when
markets are at all-time highs, stocks
are higher 6 months, 12 months after
that 93% of the times, how much is this
really supportive of any kind of bullish
call? And even if you have some
skepticism about some of the tech
investments, Fed rate cuts can save it
all.
>> Yeah. In our view, the Fed rate cuts are
one factor of many. The north star for
this bull market in our view is still
corporate earnings. Uh if I think about
this year, we're up 13 14% with only one
Fed rate cut because of technology. And
if we put that hundred billion dollar
number from um Nvidia and open AI into
context, I don't think a quarter or 50
basis points changes. I think where that
where that that rate change matters the
most is for some of these smaller midcap
cap companies that have more floating
rate debt and as you saw in July and
August there was some rotation into that
as the rate cuts. So I think those rate
cuts are more important for the small
caps and midcaps but less important for
the the mega cap tech stocks which have
a lot of cash and cash flow positive.
>> You've been changing your mind on small
caps especially after this summer. What
exactly is it about the small caps you
like? Is it just the rate story in the
Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah. Well, our big picture theme as I
as I mentioned is still AI tech and
we're still overweight growth and large
caps. But where we were, you know,
really underweight small caps, we went
to more of a neutral position back in
August. And there's a couple different
factors. One, they have underperformed
by the most since 2000. They are
relatively cheap. That hasn't mattered.
But what has changed over the last few
months is the earning trends have
started to move up in a meaningful way.
Um at the same time we have that one big
beautiful bill that has actually some
incentives for more leverage companies
and capital uh uh depreciation as well.
So I think that's uh that's a positive.
We also have seen huge outflows um out
of small cap. So I think position is is
somewhat light and the and the technical
trends have improved. So we put that all
together with a little bit of of
sprinkling of some M&A. We don't want to
be underweight the group. Is it
leadership? No. But we also know that
you know if you have like a 1% move out
of Nvidia that's about 40 billion.
That's three times the biggest small cap
company. So just we want to at least
participate in that area of the market
especially if we see some bouts of um
you know rotation later this year.
>> You still like gold as a diversifier.
They also continue to hit new record
highs every single day. Do you think
actually you should be going longer into
gold adding more there?
>> Yeah, I don't know that I'd be adding
more today. We've been um in gold all
year long. It's up over 40%. Uh it's
having an outsiz impact on portfolios.
The other thing with gold that's
interesting is we measure when days
where stocks and bonds are down, gold
has been up more than 50% of the time
this year. And if we kind of zoom out a
bit, even though gold's up a lot now,
you have to remember the these things
tend to cycle in long cycles. And gold
didn't do anything for almost the last
decade. So we like gold longer term.
We're sticking with gold near-term. on a
short-term basis. Is it getting a little
bit extended? Probably, but we think
that underlying trend, central bank
buying, interest rates moving down, a
little bit of weakness in the dollar is
all supportive of continued strength in
gold over the next year.
>> Hey Keith, appreciate catching up.
Thanks for the time this morning. Keith
Ler there of Truist Advisory Services on
the latest moves we're seeing from
Nvidia in the AI space. Do you want to
fight it? This came from Tony
Pascarelloo of Goldman Sachs just
yesterday. Do I love the positioning
setup and the tactical riskreward? I
don't. He goes on to say, "With that
said, do I think you should be stepping
in front of the US mega cap tech freight
train? I don't.
>> There's no reason to sort of say that
it's going to stop anytime soon. There's
no red flag. Even some of the
profitability uh the actual monetization
of these programs, you're starting to
see it percolate out, albeit at pretty
small levels at this point." That said,
people point to the fact and bespoke
Investments did a great job of this.
This was a dynamic back in the late
1990s as well. The internet was a real
thing. It actually became
transformative. But who the winners
were? Well, we're not using some of the
same atotmail.com that we were back
then.
>> We're throwing a lot of the wall at the
moment trying to find out who those
winners actually are. And video down in
the pre-market by about 610 of 1% a
string of all-time highs on the S&P 500
just about unchanged so far this morning
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over
to Yahara for more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi John. in a blockbuster AI deal.
Nvidia is set to invest as much as 100
billion dollars in OpenAI to support new
data centers and other AI
infrastructure. The agreement will help
OpenAI build the data centers using
Nvidia's advanced AI chips. The
investment will be provided in stages
with an initial $10 billion. Nvidia
shares popped nearly 4% yesterday on the
news to close at another record high.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration has
linked Tylenol to autism, urging
pregnant women to avoid it. The moves
the moves comes despite a lack of widely
accepted scientific evidence supporting
the risk. Still, the FDA recommended
doctors consider minimizing the pain
medication for low-grade fevers while
noting a causal relationship between
autism and Tylenol has not been
established.
And after a brief suspension, Jimmy
Kimmel Live will return tonight. ABC's
parent company Disney says it decided to
bring back the late night show after
thoughtful conversations with its host.
The suspension was a response to remarks
Kimmel made regarding the assassination
of conservative activist Charlie Kirk.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, a divided Federal Reserve. The
appropriate Fed funds rate is in the mid
2% area, almost two percentage points
lower than current policy.
>> It's important that we stay restrictive
to bring inflation back down to target.
>> It's a lot of daylight between those two
policy makers. We'll get into that next
with George Pollock of Signnum Global
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
some data and an important speech for
this market later on this afternoon. On
the data front, 9:45 Eastern time. Look
out for the PMIs better than expected
out of Europe, the Euro zone driven by
Germany. Let's see if we get that in the
United States. This is important. Are we
seeing signs of a reaceleration state
side coming out of the summer? That's
the data. Then later, it's Chairman Pal
12:35 Eastern time. his thoughts on
monetary policy and maybe possibly his
personal views on where we are and the
division on the FOMC into that. The
scores look like this. 3-day winning
streak on the S&P 500. Can we make it
day four? Just about unchanged on the
S&P. Likewise on the NASDAQ. In the bond
market, we've had a 4-day run of high
yields at a front end on twos at the
long end on 10. That takes a pause this
morning. Down about a basis point on
twos and down two basis points on tens.
still at the very low end of the range
for the year so far, Lisa. But notable
that move ever since the Fed made that
call on Wednesday, yields have been
drifting higher.
>> Maybe people have actually been reading
the commentary and giving it a little
bit more credence because other than one
member and a lot of people have pointed
this out yesterday. We were talking
about this, the fact that you didn't get
any additional members joining that
descent for 50 was telling Chris Waller,
Mickey Bowman, they stood be behind a 25
basis point rate cut. There's a signal
in that. Tenya Bonos this morning down
two basis points to about 41273
under Savanis this morning a divided
Federal Reserve.
>> We should be very cautious in removing
monetary policy restriction.
>> The appropriate Fed funds rate is in the
mid 2% area almost 2 percentage points
lower than current policy.
>> It's important that we stay restrictive
to bring inflation back down to target.
If we remove that restriction from the
economy things could start overheating
again. Leaving policy restrictive by
such a large degree brings significant
risks for the Fed's employment mandate.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Division of the Federal Reserve making
itself known as traders await more Fed
speak with comments from Chair Powell
expected later on today. Joining us now
to discuss is Bloomberg's Mike McKe.
Mike, there's a big difference at either
end of the spectrum on the FOMC.
>> Yeah, and we heard from both ends of the
spectrum. Beth Hammock, Raphael Bastik,
and Alberto Mousalam are three of the
hawkest members of the Fed. and they all
spoke yesterday and all said basically
the same thing you just heard from the
Cleveland Fed bank president. It's
Steven Myron who stands out calling for
much lower rates much faster because his
argument is that tariffs, taxes and
immigration have all changed the neutral
rate for the US economy and it is as you
heard him say much much lower. There's
not a lot of support for that. There are
some people who think that the neutral
rate has come down, but nobody's really
putting a number on it like he is at
this point. And I would point out you
just had a graphic showing that Mickey
Bowman is speaking this morning at 9:00
and she's speaking on her economic
outlook. And since she's the closest one
to Myron in terms of the distance
between the Hawks and the Doves, uh it
will be very interesting to see if she
accepts any part of his argument and
suggests that anybody on the board might
be uh even close to his view of how much
interest rates should come down.
>> Mike, can you just build on the debate
around the neutral rate? Just how wide
are the range of estimates currently at
the Federal Reserve for precisely where
neutral might be? Well, the long run
neutral rate in the summary of economic
projections is 3%. You can't really take
that uh too seriously because everybody
just kind of puts down a number there.
But then when you talk to most of them,
uh most of them think it's in that area.
Of course, you can't really see what the
neutral rate is. You can only observe it
in uh in hindsight or as Jay Pal likes
to say, we know it by its works. Uh and
so I think you've got big majority on
the board thinking somewhere around
three and some people think maybe three
and a quarter some people think maybe
275 but nobody is saying two to two and
a half% at this point.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Mike, thank
you sir. Appreciate it. Let's run with
the idea that we've got two different
time horizons here between now and May
and then from May onwards. So that's
basically the difference between a
chairman pal Fed and Chairman Pal no
longer being there. Let's deal with the
next 6, seven, 8 months or so. This
Federal Reserve, the last cut was the
easy one. The closer you get to neutral,
the more difficult it becomes. And I
wonder how persuasive the Governor Myron
argument is going to be for the
remainder of the year and through early
26.
>> I thought Mike actually had a wonderful
point, the idea of Beth Hammock, but
then also Mickey Bowman and how
important it is to listen to how much
credence she gives this argument of a
neutral rate around 2% or even 2 and
a.5% if she is amendable to that kind of
idea. This could point not only to more
uh reductions next year, but also to the
operation twist that we've heard so much
about.
>> To extend the conversation, George
Pollock of Signum Global joins us now
for more. George, welcome back to the
program. I mentioned those two different
time horizons there. We've dealt with
the first one, the remainder of Chairman
Pal's tenure as the chairman of the
Federal Reserve. Let's talk about the
postpal world at the Federal Reserve. A
Governor Myron's thoughts a taste of
things to come.
Yeah, I think any any notion that a next
nominee from the President Trump will be
someone not not like Governor Myin, I
think is optimistic thinking. The
reality is the president understands
having nominated power in his first term
that he needs to get people who agree
with his preferred monetary policy on
the board and that should be the
expectation by and large.
>> George, do you think he's purely on loan
to fill this vacancy until end of
January or is he auditioning to stay on
the Fed longer?
>> From my perspective, it has to be an
audition. He there's no way in world he
does not want to be a fed governor for
the 14-year term. He is auditioning and
he understands that while he's
auditioning, he has to stay in line with
the president. Even if these are his
true beliefs, he's going to not deviate
from the president and understand that
if he doesn't do well, he can either
lose his position on the CEA or not be
nominated for a full 14-year term. When
it comes to thinking about the next Fed
chair, do you get the sense that this
administration is not in a rush because
the Federal Reserve is moving in the
direction that the president has been
asking for for months?
>> Yeah, actually that's been a really
interesting observation to see how, you
know, 6 months ago it was all panic
about who's the next Fed chair and the
administration seemed to be moving
quickly and there was talk of, you know,
an early nominee. That seems to have
slowed down and I I would imagine that's
largely in part because the Fed's moving
towards it. Additionally, I think the
president's taking some grace in the
idea that at least he has Myron on the
board being his advocate at the FOMC.
>> There's also a question about the
reaction function on the Federal Reserve
even with any kind of new Fed chair who
is more amendable to President Trump's
policies. What the response is to
inflation that does pick up again or
remains fairly high. And I asked this
not through an economic lens but through
a political lens.
And I think that's where one thing where
I feel that the Trump administration is
kind of sounding like the Biden
administration of 2024 where they were
all arguing inflation is transitory.
Look at the fundamental data. The
economy is good. There's no way we lose
this election. The Trump administration
seems to making that same exact mistake,
saying, "No, no, no, no. Our policies
are actually working great. There's no
inflation. Immigration is good. The
tariffs are good. Everything is
helping." and it feels like they're slow
sleepwalking into the midterms just like
the Biden administration and the Harris
campaign sleepwalked into 2024.
>> This is what a number of people have
argued that people in the community are
feeling inflation much more uh than the
idea of transitory that seems to be
resurrected on the Fed but also beyond.
I'm just wondering from the polls that
you see, is there real credence to this?
Is there an actual feasible opposition,
a collective message on the other side
that actually can disrupt some of the
Republican presence uh in the midterms
or is this just something to watch as we
head into the end of this year?
>> So, I think that's two separate
questions. We're seeing in polling that
the president is underwater on the
handling of the economy and that
American voters really don't like the
tariffs. But the separate question is is
whether Democrats can establish a
message saying this is how tariffs are
raising prices. And I think that's more
difficult because the reality is tariffs
are a nuanced issue and the president
has a compelling argument saying
bringing back US manufacturing and I
think when the voters hear US
manufacturing or they hear you know this
is more of a tax they kind of don't know
what to believe and they kind of just
accept it and move on. That doesn't mean
though that the president's handling of
the economy is not going to cause them
issues and not going to cause the
Republican party issues coming into the
midterms. George, there was a subtle
sign just last week in reporting from
the Washington Post that maybe Congress
would begin to push back and look to
provide exemptions for things like
coffee. George, is that a one-off or a
sign of things to come? Do you think
maybe in the future we'll see a little
bit more of that?
>> Look, I think the reality is I know that
was Don Bacon who introduced the coffee
the coffee legislation. That bill is not
going to pass. Speaker Johnson won't put
it on the floor. And even if it gets on
the floor through a discharge petition,
Majority Leader Thun certainly won't
consider it. and let's say on the on the
event that it maybe it passes by some
miracle, the president's going to veto
it and they're not going to have the
supermajority necessary to overturn the
veto. So I think for that that's more
just messaging to the administration
saying, "Hey, you need to work with us
on this. Please tone down the
temperature." But in reality, as long as
Republicans are in control, I would not
expect push back. And even if Democrats
are to retake the House, for example, in
2026, I would not expect a Republican
Senate to take up anything restricting
the president's authorities. George,
appreciate your time, your input,
insight, and your opinion, sir. Thank
you, George Pollock there of Signnum
Global. That last point there, messaging
may be I think that messaging might get
a little bit more stronger in the year
to come going into the midterms.
>> Absolutely. And you mentioned this
legislation potentially a carve out for
coffee. It was not just Don Bacon. It
was also Ro Kana. It was bipartisan.
What do you think constituents are
saying when they see their lawmakers and
they see their representative? It's
probably like, "Why is my latte $5 more
than it was years ago?" You said you
were going to fix it, you didn't.
>> George alluded to something else, which
is even when the Democrats or if the
Democrats do take control, it's not
likely that they're going to roll back
these tariffs either, just simply
because, well, he pointed to the
Republican uh majority. My thinking is
it brings in a lot of revenues. And
realistically, you would see a bond
market tantrum if you just cut those
revenues off completely and you didn't
adjust any of the spending plans. You
put that together with potentially what
could happen. This actually does come
down to the Fed and the Fed's response
to inflation because I don't see another
way.
>> Well, two things. Potentially, AIPA is
going to strike it down and then we
might actually be left with this
shortfall. But also, you mentioned this
polling on inflation approval on
inflation. Real clear political polling
average. 39%.
59% disapprove how they're handling
inflation. And the president said
himself he won on the word what?
Groceries.
>> So far, the bond market approves to your
point. So far, bond yields on 10 413. Up
next on the program, we'll catch up with
the OECD chief economist Alvaro Santos
Pereira.
[Music]
3-day winning streak on the S&P 500.
Slight pullback this morning. No drama.
Down about 0.05%
on the S&P. on the NASDAQ 100 totally
unchanged in the bond market ever since
the Fed met on Wednesday and cut
interest rates by 25 basis points.
Yields drifted higher for four
consecutive sessions this morning
pulling back just the basis point. The
2-year 35945
just short of 360. But that 4-day run,
the longest on the front end going back
to July ever since August, we've just
had this very powerful rally at the
front end of the curve. We just gave a
little bit back over the past few
sessions.
>> And maybe it comes with the whole idea
of buy the rumor, sell the news. is the
idea that after Jackson Hole and the
speech that we heard from Jay Powell, it
was clear they were prioritizing growth
and protecting the labor market above
curtailing inflation, that run got
essentially confirmed to some degree by
the Federal Reserve, but maybe not as
much as people expected. Maybe we're
giving that just a little bit back.
>> That's the right story. State side
pushing through foreign exchange. Euro
dollar very close to 118. Actually
briefly had a stronger euro off the back
of some strong data. The PMIs, Eurozone
private sector growth fastest in 16
months. That's the Eurozone PMI. Later
on this morning, 945
US PMIs. I think that's an important
data point. First real flavor of just
how we're doing coming out of summer,
>> especially given the fact that
everyone's been talking about a
manufacturing revival and there have
been signs around that and yet the PMIs
have been still coming in below uh the
expansionary level. Do we see a shift in
that and how much can that support the
idea that we're actually entering into a
reaceleration, not the opposite? That's
what a lot of CEOs have been telling us.
>> That's what the stock market's priced
for into 26, the euro against the
dollar792.
That's the cross asset price action.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny with more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. We start with a company that
IPOed just last month to a lot of
fanfare. Now it's trading below its IPO
price. That's Firefly Aerospace down a
whopping 10% this morning. It had
earnings after the bell. Of course, it's
first set of earnings since IPOing. A
wider loss than expected. The problem
for them, the CEO says there's demand,
but they're trying to ramp up their
actual supply to deliver out. So again,
those shares sinking some 10% this
morning. Elsewhere in aerospace, it is a
good day for Boeing. Shares are up 3.6%
6% after the US ambassador to China
David Purdue said that there was a huge
order that was his language coming from
China to Boeing uh said that the
president would like it and that China
would like it that it would be a big
deal for the two entities. Bloomberg has
been reporting that China has been
working on about a 500 aircraft order
from Boeing. So maybe it is that order
that is sending shares higher.
Meanwhile, Ken View it is recouping some
of the loss yesterday. well on its way
to do that up 5.9%
after President Trump said yesterday
that pregnant women should avoid Tylenol
or the active ingredient in it acetamin
that of course is made by Ken View.
There's been a reaction from researchers
afterwards saying that the evidence
isn't quite there. City writing that
because of that scientific push back and
the limited judicial risk with no new
evidence they expect that Ken View
shares continue to rebound. John
>> Danny appreciate the update that stock
is up by 5.9%. More from Danny in the
next hour. On our radar this morning,
Nvidia set to invest up to 100 billion
in open AI to build new data centers.
The investment provided in stages will
help power the future of artificial
intelligence. Nvidia jumping nearly 4%
in Monday session. Elsewhere, world
leaders in New York City as President
Donald Trump is set to address the UN
General Assembly. Trump will also hold
key meetings with leaders from Ukraine
and the EU, plus a special summit on
Gaza. And finally, all eyes will be on
Fed chair JPAL later today as he gives
his first public speech since cutting
interest rates last Wednesday. Investors
will be looking for clues on the future
of policy when JPL speaks around 12:35
Eastern time.
>> The future of policy until May of next
year, perhaps. Uh this to me is really
the question. How much does anything he
say really matter? Does he give a sense
of what his personal view is? And how
much are people going to be looking for
a signal of the committee's push back to
Steven Myron's views? Ultimately, is
there going to be a litmus test in how
convincing some of his arguments were to
members on the board? We're thinking
about that with Mickey Bowman. I'm also
wondering whether Jay Powell is going to
mention that at all today as well.
>> Well, what he said last week when he was
Jay Powell, there are no risk-free
paths. So, he's likely going to say that
again. He also said it's not incredibly
obvious what to do. We have to keep our
eye inflation. I thought that was
interesting what Myron said yesterday
about inflation indicating in the future
because I don't want to look like
they're moving the goalpost too soon. in
the future he would be open to getting
rid of that precise 2% inflation target.
We could be looking at a very different
Fed in 2026 and 2027.
>> Chairman Pound did a decent job of
finding consensus last week when there
probably wasn't any consensus at all.
And what they all appear to agree on was
just the phrase risk management. What
they all disagree on is how much risk
there actually is and how you should
manage it. And you're going to see that
more and more in the speeches in the
days to come.
>> Yeah. And especially if you have data
that comes in better than expected like
so much of it has. How much does that
kind of tie their hands to? If you start
to get uh for example employment picking
up, you get sort of a rebuttal of what
we saw in terms of the summer weakness.
Can they cut in October? Right now, the
market is pricing at a 93% chance that
they will. So, a lot of room for
disappointment right now priced into the
Fed fund funds market.
>> Chairman Pal 12:35 Eastern time. Let's
turn to the global economy. The OECD
says the world has yet to feel the full
impact of President Trump's tariff
agenda. A new forecast is marking down
global GDP growth to 2.9% for next year
despite a stronger thanex expected 2025.
Joining us now to discuss is Alvaro
Santos Pereira, the OECD chief economist
and incoming ECB governing council
member. Alvaro, welcome to the program,
sir. Would love to get your thoughts on
what's happening with the global
economy, but more specifically what's
happening with Europe. The Eurozone GDP
number is going to be closer to 1% than
2%. Alvarado, what is happening with the
European economy and why is the stimulus
coming out of places like Germany not
helping us get a better growth profile?
>> Well, thanks very much. Thanks for
having me. Well, first of all, we expect
that uh GDP growth in Germany will pick
up and from 0.3 to about 1.1% next year
and this is because of this fiscal
stimulus and the military spending that
is expected. remember part of this
fiscal stimulus has to do with
infrastructure needs that u uh Germany
really needs uh in especially in areas
of uh of digital and so I think it it
makes total sense on the other hand we
see other parts of the European uh area
like France and Italy uh growing
relatively okay but not spectacular so
Europe continues to grow around 1% uh
1.2 to this year 1 point 1% next year
and so that means that is I believe
there is more needs to be done what can
be done uh I think Europe needs to
improve its business climate it needs to
reform and reduce barriers to
competition and barriers to to entry in
many sectors and in particular I think
is absolutely essential to what
Europeans say to complete the the
savings and investment union what this
means is that to create the conditions
that uh so that venture markets and more
equity markets become stronger and less
and and European firms become less
reliant on on banking uh financing.
>> Do you believe based on the outlook for
inflation that there might be sufficient
space for the ECB to provide additional
support in the year to come?
Well, I think right now inflation seems
to be um on target and I think it's
always important to give a buffer in
terms of uh uh of in terms of monetary
policy on fiscal policy as well. But I
think the buffer is important because as
we saw in the last five or six years, we
were hit several times with a with a
pandemic uh with a huge energy crisis
followed Russia's invasion of Ukraine
and recently the the policy
uncertainties around the tariffs and
with all these shocks you know
governments have to have some margin
debts are very high and uh uh uh we we
believe that it's on the fiscal side the
fiscal discipline is essential on the
other hand on monetary policy you know
if you keep some buffers so that you are
able you have the the room to maneuver
in case of a shock. I think this is
absolutely essential. This goes to the
question of whether the ECB wants to be
a bit more accommodative or is open to
that or whether they want to keep their
firepower. And this is important for you
not only as a chief economist of the
OECD but an incoming governing member on
the ECB. And I'm just wondering how open
you are to potentially cutting rates in
as soon as December. Something that some
of your colleagues have been open to
given the lack of growth and the lack of
expectation of growth at a time where
inflation doesn't seem to be materially
picking up.
>> I think as I said inflation seems to be
uh in in a good place right now. Um it's
important to say that the problem of
Europe lack of growth is more to do with
the reforms that have not been done
completing the single market uh and
working on many other areas of
simplifying regulations and and being
able to bring uh a better a more general
competitive environment rather than on
the monetary policy front.
>> There's been a question around how some
of the European economies have dealt
with debt and deficit as well. a
question of how much raising taxes is
the correct measure for uh this issue
which has raised questions about the
French government debt market among
others. How are you viewing the remedies
that economies like the United Kingdom
are proposing to raise taxes? How are
you viewing that in terms of growth
versus uh becoming more of a problem?
Well, we know that uh uh debts are at
historically high levels in many
European economies, not only um and we
know that spending pressures are rising.
There's more spending pressures for the
military. There's more spending
pressures for the green transition and
the energy uh that is needed for AI and
there's more spending pressures with the
aging of the population which means that
if you start already with very high debt
levels and you have all these spending
pressures, something has to give. And so
going back to fiscal discipline, whether
countries work on the on on the tax side
or on the on the on the uh spending
side, it's obviously a personal choice
uh for governments and depending on the
on the choices of of a particular
country. Having said that, we do think
that in terms of spending uh there's
more that can be done in terms of
spending reviews, reviewing procurement
arrangements uh establishing better
fiscal frameworks uh in the medium term
so that there's margin also in uh to do
more in terms of spending. In terms of
taxes, uh a lot of taxes uh do not have
enough broad te tax bases. Uh there's
more that can be done to reduce um to
increase the tax base and reduce the
rates. So, I think there's margin that
governments can do before they they
raise taxes uh in a significant way.
>> Your report says that we're going to see
the tariff hit from the United States
next year, but you're talking a lot when
you look at Europe, how they need to
think differently, enact reforms. Do you
think the President Donald Trump's trade
policy is forcing Europe to take major
changes that actually will be good for
them?
Well, I do think that Europe has to
address um reforms that have been
postponed for a long time. Think about
the single market. Uh Europe is is
fantastic to produce nice reports. Uh we
just produced two really good ones on
Leta and and Ragi. But the problem that
Europe has very often is that doesn't
follow through, does not implement those
reforms that and and those those
reports. Uh in particular, the single
market was created in about 92. uh big
changes creating a a much bigger market
for all Europeans. But on the other
hand, there's many areas in services, in
transportation, in energy in which
there's not really a single market. So
if concentrating on those reforms would
be uh for me the priority, I think
Europe needs to get its act together in
terms of reforms. Um of course tariffs
are a challenge, but I think the most
problem in terms of Europe is the lack
of reforms and more needs to be done in
that area. Alvaro, do you see the ECB as
an institution? Do you see it as their
role to make sure there's sufficient
discipline to push them to have an
incentive to make those reforms? Do you
believe that maybe some of the moves
we've seen from the ECB in the last
decade plus has perhaps taken some of
the heat off those governments in a way
that has been maybe undermined the
continent and the broader economy?
Well, I think the ECB uh with its uh uh
studies and reports can highlight some
of the big challenges that we have going
forward. For example, the aging of the
population has a massive impact on on on
on on our systems, tech systems and
other systems. We also know that a big
challenge in terms of AI. We have we
just highlighted in fact in our report
big increase in digital investment in
the United States compared to anywhere
else. uh and there's not enough in
Europe you know what is the case why is
this the case and on the other hand also
in terms of the green transition what
can uh countries do and so I think the
ECB and central banks have an important
role to play to highlight and to study
first of all the problems highlight
possible solutions in the future uh and
I think the central banks need to look
also to these long-term trends that are
taking place right now in the world
economy so that they are able to
guarantee um good monetary policy and
and guarantee financial stability.
>> Avar, just before you go, I wanted to
squeeze in an important question. How
you would characterize the balance of
risk around the inflation story at the
moment. Here in America, there is a
focus on upside risk to inflation. In
Europe, there's been a conversation
about the continent potentially eating
Chinese overcapacity and those exports
that would traditionally go to America
to go to Europe and to other places. And
the team here at Bloomberg's done a
great job today of just breaking down
how much we've seen an increase of
exports from China to various regions.
Do you see the tariff shock of the last
year as potentially a disinflationary
shock for the Europeans?
>> Well, the tariff shock is is is bringing
more inflationary pressures in many
countries and we expect that uh uh many
of these the tariffs have the effects of
these tariffs have not been fully uh
impacted in the economy. We have a graph
that shows exactly what's the effective
US tariff rate and what is uh right now
the current tariff rate in terms of the
customs duties and uh there's still a
divergence between the two. What this
means is that there's still a few
inflationary pressure that will have to
be embedded into the economy and will be
incorporated by firms in the next few
months. So we expect that there will be
additional uh price impacts uh for firms
not only in the United States but other
parts of the world too. So I do think
that uh um the overall picture is one in
which you have additional inflationary p
pressures uh from terrorists and on the
other hand we have even though service
price inflation has been very sticky
around the world uh goods price
inflation start to tick up a little bit
in particular in countries like Japan uh
and a few others food price inflation um
went up quite significantly and this is
adding additional pressures on goods
price inflation so it's very possible if
this continues that there'll be
additional pressures and additional risk
regarding um goods price inflation in
the in the foreseeable future.
>> Alvaro, appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. Thanks for making time for us this
morning. Alvaro Santos put out of there
at the OECD. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide with your blimp brief.
Let's cross over to Yahara Arnard for
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Hong Kong has issued its third
highest storm warning as super typhoon
Ragasa approaches after lashing the
Philippines, which you can see there in
that video. It is equivalent to a
category four hurricane according to the
local weather agency and has caused
major flight disruptions, close schools
and businesses. It could potentially be
the most damaging storm in the region
since 2018.
Meanwhile, here, President Trump is set
to meet with Democratic leaders this
week to discuss a funding bill as a
shutdown looms in Washington. and House
Minority Leader Hakeim Jeff and Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer requested
to have the meeting with the president
ahead of the September 30th government
shutdown deadline.
And in an interview with Times of India,
JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond says he
hopes President Trump and Indian Prime
Minister Narendra Modi can reach a trade
deal. Plus, when asked about the Trump
administration's steep hike on H-1B visa
fees, Diamond said he will be engaging
with stakeholders and policy makers,
adding that the move quote came out of
the blue. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next,
backstopping Argentina.
>> China has a foreign exchange swap with
Argentina. Would you consider a credit
line directly from the United States?
Uh,
>> that's not under consideration.
Ed Hosani of Columbia Thread Needle
joins us next live from New York City.
This is Bloomberg
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program under Surveillance this morning.
Batch stopping Argentina. Here's the
latest. President Donald Trump gearing
up for a meeting with Argentina's
president Mille today as the US is
pledging quote large and forceful action
to support Argentina's economy. Ed
Huseni of Columbia Thread Needle writing
it is difficult to make the case that
Argentina is a systemically important
economy. All economic interventions in
Argentina over the past half century
have failed. Ed joins us now for more.
Ed, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's just set on that point. Why do
they keep failing? What is it about
Argentina and the way it's set up
politically that ends up looking like
this all the time?
>> You know, it's an incredibly difficult
mix and an incredibly difficult history
and they haven't really broken loose
some of the policy mistakes made back in
the 80s uh to this day and it's not
clear if there's a path forward uh to do
that.
>> There was one recent election that
pushed back against Mille. Up until
then, it felt like the market was very
happy and comfortable with the reforms
and some of his policies. Are we voting
down his policies or voting down the
individuals that might be coming
through? What's this market actually
responding to?
>> Again, it's incredibly difficult. Almost
every election in Argentina when they
have an election tends to be a change
election. People are quite uncomfortable
with the pace of change, with the
sacrifices necessary for that change.
Poverty in Argentina is in the 40s.
Um, and what markets are starting to get
nervous about at the moment is the
return of the previous administration,
which was a lot less market friendly, a
lot more focused on state intervention
and quite negative for the currency.
>> Would you say that Argentina is
uninvestable even with uh any kind of
initiative from the US government just
simply because it's already defaulted
nine times on its sovereign debt going
back in its history?
>> I mean, this is one of the this is super
tricky. Um, Argentina is investable at
the right price and the the difficult
environment that they are in at the
moment from an investment perspective is
their bonds have priced in uh their hard
currency, the dollar bonds have priced
in a lot of good news uh just a month
ago and have been going through a shock.
Uh faith in LA's ability to carry on the
reform program is fading. fade in the
currency stability program is fading
which means they're losing dollars to
support that program and that ultimately
translates into an inability to repay
their debt and so that that's the
dynamic we're in right now at the moment
it's very difficult to invest in that
debt uh but there will be a time when it
will be once again attractive
>> well let's broaden out this idea of can
the US government pick winners and
losers how much does that really change
the investment landscape for you when
you're looking for developed markets to
invest at a time where a lot of people
are saying a rate cutting cycle around
the world positive typically for these
economies. How much does that distort
where you're willing to look?
>> You know, from a credit perspective,
these intervention programs,
particularly IMF programs, tend to be
very important back stops. One, they
provide dollar liquidity, which the US
government looks set to do here. And
two, most importantly, they provide a
straight jacket in terms of policy
settings. uh to the extent that
Argentina needs fiscal reform, they need
currency reform, um the ability of the
IMF in particular to impose that is is
is very powerful. I think unfortunately
in Argentina's case that history is very
murky. Um there's a lot of failures in
that history over the course of the past
50 years and and again they are in an
IMF program currently. They've borrowed
well in excess of hundred billion
dollars from the IMF over the past
decade. Will this particular
intervention lead to success long-term?
Probably not. But in the short term, it
definitely helps.
>> In the short term, could it change
political concerns around the October
26th election, Argentina?
>> Probably not. Um, the short-term fix
here is the currency is under
depreciation pressure and so they need
dollars to defend that currency. markets
have a way of sniffing out that support
as being temporary and and overcoming
it. And so it's very likely that the
currency will remain under pressure for
the foreseeable future until that
election is done until markets get get a
view of what policy looks like in the
coming years.
>> So what's in it for the US if they're
not going to get this win potentially
for MLE in October? Doesn't this put
them in a very vulnerable position?
>> It's an extraordinarily difficult
question. I think a lot depends on how
this program is designed. The the
Treasury's exchange stabilization fund
usually works through the IMF or in
tandem with the IMF. It's rarely used on
its own. Um if this is part of an
expanded IMF package, it it might
provide a little bit of support. It
might provide a little bit of fiscal
room for the government um heading into
this election. But the election's in
October. There's not enough time to
change that dynamic at this stage. Is
this a broader EM problem or just an
Argentina problem? Because hopes for EM
more broadly have picked up quite
recently.
>> This is I think a distinct Argentina
problem. Um you know one of the
fantastic things about EM and and and
these developing economies since the
Asian financial crisis really has been a
lack of crisis. Crisis have become
exceedingly rare. Financial crises are
exceedingly rare. um they run policies
that are a lot more sophisticated in
terms of monetary and fiscal policy.
It's a much more credible group of
policy makers um in charge of these
economies of the moment versus where we
were let's say in in the late '90s.
>> This story at the epicenter of meetings
taking place here in New York City this
week meeting the President Donald Trump.
I wonder what parameters there are on
any kind of support lines that the US
gives Argentina in terms of those
straight jackets that Ed was talking
about on policy. That I think is
something to watch out for.
>> Ed, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by.
>> Thank you.
>> And discussing this topic. Thank you. Ed
Alusani there of Colombia Thread Needle.
Coming up next, Lisa Shannon Morgan
Stanley, the former US Deputy Treasury
Secretary Wally Admo, the EDP CEO Miguel
Stillw Dondrad and Christen Biddley of
City Global W from New York City. The
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance up
next.
[Music]
There is this hopefulness in equity
markets that we are going to get through
all the risks.
>> We're not back to US exceptionalism, but
there is some demand coming back. We're
seeing more signs of corporate
confidence.
>> I feel pretty comfortable with where we
are now.
>> If you look past this year into next
year, we do see earnings improving. We
don't see significant catalyst for
destabilizing.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now,
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 shaping up as
follows. on the S&P down by not even a
tenth of 1% following three days of
gains on the S&P and a 28th all-time
high in the bond market. 4 days of
higher bond yields at the front end and
the long end on twos and tens this
morning. We back away. We're down a
basis point on a 2-year at 35924.
Shaping the outlook for this particular
bond for this particular session is
going to be this man right here,
Chairman Pal speaking later on this
afternoon around 12:35 Eastern time.
That's the address to watch on a week
full of Fed speak.
>> Yeah. How much does he really push back
against some of what we were hearing in
terms of how much the Fed could
potentially cut in the next 6 to 12
months? How much does it matter? What
does the market actually believe given
the fact that he's going to be out in
May? I think there's a bigger question
underpinning his speech and underpinning
all Fed rhetoric right now, which is how
much do Fed rate cuts matter in
supporting record high after record
high. Is it independent of that expected
rate cut path or is it predicated on
that? And that I think we have to
answer. And I also wonder if Chair
Powell is going to maybe at least on the
margins challenge what we heard from
Steve Myron when it comes to how deep
they need to cut and how fast and how
different you basically have almost it
feels like two different heads of a Fed.
Steve Meyer probably is not going to be
the Fed chair, but he certainly
represents the direction of travel of
2025 and 2026.
>> Everyone seems to be comfortable with
where policyy's at and they're looking
for a better 26 and they're chasing this
market. Alexander Seanova of Bloomberg
putting this piece together today. The
record setting advanc has pushed the S&P
nearly 3% above the average year-end
forecast of those tracked by Bloomberg,
which currently stands at 6,486.
Only in 24 and 99 have the calls lagged
the market's actual return so much
around this time of the year.
>> So, if you wanted to know why a number
of Wall Street banks, I'm not going to
name names, have rejiggered their
year-end forecast four, five, six, seven
times, it is because of this. They keep
getting left in the dust by how quickly
the market is going up. Which raises
question is there anything that tor that
could torpedo this teflon market or is
this essentially immune to any shocks
based on tech spending and based on rate
cuts. When it comes to tech spending
though you both mentioned at the top of
the last hour this circular environment
we have. It's a self-fulfilling prophecy
right now. It feels like in the AI world
which is bleeding into the financial
markets. Nvidia giving open AI an
investment to what? just send it back to
them, buy chips. Basically, you're just
going to get a little bit of a discount.
>> So, Nvidia rallies and that's exactly
what we saw in yesterday's session this
morning, down by about 8 ten of 1%.
Coming up this hour, Lisa Shalott of
Morgan Stanley with Wall Street on a
record run. We'll catch up with the
EDPCO Miguel Stillwell Dondrad as the US
energy costs jump on AI demand. Plus,
we'll catch up with Christine Biddley of
City as a newly minted Fed governor
calls for bigger rate cuts. We begin
this hour with stocks near record highs
following Nvidia's 100 billion
investment in open AI. Lisa Shannon of
Morgan Stanley writing, "US equities are
increasingly pricing perfection based
largely on assumptions around Gen AI
spending. With valuations rich, room for
disappointment is very limited." Lisa
joins us now for more. Lisa, good
morning.
>> Good morning, guys.
>> I know you don't typically do single
names, but can we just pick out that
deal in the last 24 hours? A $100
billion investment from Nvidia into Open
AI. some people scratching their heads
and saying, "Is this just a house of
cards or is this just the beginning and
you shouldn't fight it?" How do you
approach this situation?
>> Yeah. So, it won't surprise uh you or or
many viewers who know we we typically
are a little bit more cautious um that
we view this with a little bit of
skepticism. You know, it's very
interesting when um Nvidia did the
spin-off of Coreweave uh which is, you
know, kind of a a data center operator.
Um, we felt like this was a little bit
of a way of, you know, we don't want
people to start asking questions about
whether we're selling to ourselves or
whether it's arms length. Um, there's
something about this that is starting to
smell very 99 2000. Um, uh, and so, uh,
you know, look, the market right now, I
think, is running on the sentiment. It's
running on the fumes. It's very hard to
stand in front of that. Um, and I think
that, you know, sometimes the bull case
is the lack of a credible bear case. Um,
and I think that's where we are at this
very minute. Uh, but the the skepticism,
for me at least, is growing. And so our
response to that is to try to invest a
little bit away from the epicenter,
right? And to diversify away from that
mag seven and say, "Yeah, we know that
that they're the epicenter, uh, but
they're probably overowned and a little
sizzly." Well, let's stay on the
bullcase for now and I think you
understand it well. Cyclical recovery
pickup reaceleration in 26 driven by
this monster capex boom. What is it
about that the fundamental pieces of the
bullcase that don't sit well with you?
>> So, I think fundamentally when we look
at this capex boom thesis, uh, a lot of
folks think that somehow this just began
and was ignited by um, you know, our
recently passed tax bill. Our thesis has
been we've been in a capex boom quite
frankly since the the government ignited
spending after COVID. Um so we had the
infrastructure bill, we had inflation
reduction act and so we've had a capex
boom in the United States. Our best
guess is we're actually in year four of
this. Um, and so if you look at MAG7
capex spending, it has massively
accelerated since since 2022, but it
began in 2022. And that's one of the
reasons that earnings actually tanked in
2022 is those huge negative free cash
flow. Um, and we're approaching negative
free cash flow among growth, negative
free cash flow growth, I should say, uh,
among that cohort. So, we're our belief
is we're a lot closer um to the sixth or
seventh inning than the second inning on
this capex spending boom.
>> You said something that I had to write
down because I thought it was so good.
Sometimes the bull case is the absence
of a bare case. And this raises the
question of what the main risk here is.
Is it potentially missing out on the
upside as John has laid out for many
times before the career risk of not
getting uh that rally and not capturing
it? or is there actual true downside
that you see potentially emerging from
what does feel like it's getting into
the later stage of the cycle?
>> Look, I think we do think that that the
return profile of this market is
completely asymmetric and you could
easily see this market pull back into a
20 a 20% technical bare market. um
simply if earnings miss. Right? Right
now, so much is hinged on this idea of
accelerating earnings, of operating
leverage, of expanding margins next
year. Uh and that we're going to get
this 13 to 14% um earnings growth um in
an economy that may only be doing four
or 5% nominal top line. That's a lot of
operating leverage. Um and so, you know,
we think that this is, as I said, priced
to perfection. And so, um, earnings
misses, I think, are really the thing
that could get people's attention here.
We know that the news headlines are have
not have not been been, uh, the source
of catalysts of late,
>> which points to a potential protection
in portfolios. It's been gold more than
anything else. It hasn't been
necessarily long-term bonds, although
increasingly people are starting to
nibble on that. How do you see the
relationship between monetary policy,
the rates backdrop, and any potential
pullback in the S&P 500?
>> Uh, look, you know, whenever you have a
real uh um sudden pullback in stocks,
bonds do work. They really do work as a
diversifier. People do immediately
rotate in portfolios and I think that
they will continue to play that role. um
but not having that obvious catalyst in
front of us. We like real assets better
as a diversifier. So we are talking
about gold um in the intermediate term.
We are talking about REITs, we are
talking about commodities, we are
talking about uh energy infrastructure
assets as maybe a better diversifier uh
in the intermediate term than um than
long bonds.
>> You said news headlines have not been
catalysts of late. Do you think the
markets have really started to
understand the president and the
direction of travel where he's going as
opposed to earlier in the year when
every other word out of individual's
mouths was we're concerned about policy
uncertainty? So based on my
conversations with investors and
clients, I don't think it's a question
of investors deeply understanding the
direction of the president. I think it's
investors deeply,
you know, um, uh, dismissing it and
saying, I'm looking through all of this,
and I'm looking through all of it
because there's a good portion of it
that ultimately may not be fully
implementable because it will be
challenged in court, or I'm looking
through all of this because, you know,
there's even odds that sometime in the
next 3 months it'll be pivoted and
reversed. Um, and so there's a almost a
cynicism, I think, about the headlines.
Um, I'm not encountering a lot of deep
analytic thought about, oh goodness, I
read those headlines and I know exactly
what's going on. I'm changing my
forecast for this, that, or the other
thing.
>> Is there something though in the policy
sphere that would give investors pause
and not want to just look through the
rhetoric out of Washington?
>> Again, I think it's how policy is
playing through to actual results. One
of the things that's given the market I
think confidence um to say things like
tariff don't tariffs don't matter or
immigration doesn't matter or um you
know some of these other things don't
matter is it hasn't really shown up in a
big way in the numbers and I think if in
fact it does uh and that's what we're
looking for we're looking for next year
where those earnings disappointments
come from they come from the fact that
companies actually can't make the
margins because they actually are eating
the tariffs. I mean, you know, the the
money that's coming into uh the Treasury
uh on on tariff revenue is coming from
somewhere, right? And we're going to
have to ultimately attribute it. And I
think that thus far it's been absorbed
by a good portion of small and midcap
companies and their margins. And I think
ultimately as we get into 2026 and you
fully realize um what is a six-fold
increase right from an effective tariff
rate of three to a likely effective
final tariff rate of somewhere around 18
um that that's going to going to hit
margins at least in in a in a couple of
those manufactured good sectors.
>> Alisa, can we just finish with how you
describe conversations with clients at
the moment and what would be the more
dominant sentiment? Is it an anxiety to
get out or a fear of missing out? What's
the more dominant sense of things at the
moment?
>> Yes. So, right now it's about getting
out. I think I think um you know we're
having a lot of meetings with clients
who now have been extraordinarily
pleasantly surprised at where they are.
Here they are. It's September. They're
up 14%. They thought, "Oh my goodness,
maybe nothing." Certainly back in March,
they were, you know, underwater. Um and
there's a lot of folks saying, "What
should we be looking for? How do I know
when? Uh, of course, our job is to keep
people in the markets and and and
discourage market timing, but I I think
that there's a lot more anxiety building
among folks in the market saying, "Oof,
this is feeling a little bubbly to me."
Um, you know, gosh, the market's going
up every single day.
>> Trying to work out if that's bullish or
bearish now after hearing that.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Honestly, the fact that there's
skepticism makes me think this can go on
for a lot longer.
I don't know that this is exactly
something to
>> say. Yes, this is not the catalyst. This
is not it.
>> Lisa, appreciate your thoughts as
always. Good to touch base with you.
Thank you, Lisa Charlotte there of
Morgan Stanley. Let's give you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yahara
Island. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. In a blockbuster AI deal,
Nvidia is set to invest as much as 100
billion dollars in Open AI to support
new data centers and other AI
infrastructure. under the agreement will
help OpenAI build the data centers using
Nvidia's advanced AI chips. The
investment will be provided in stages
with an initial $10 billion. Nvidia
shares popped nearly 4% yesterday on the
news to close at another record high.
Meanwhile, the White House is banning
the Iranian delegation in New York here
for the UN General Assembly from
shopping at wholesale clubs like Costco
or buying luxury goods. of the State
Department saying it will not allow
Iranian elites to quote have a shopping
spree. The delegation's movements are
also restricted while they're in town.
And Spirit Airlines is cutting flights
and placing about onethird of its flight
attendants on furlow. The budget carrier
has filed for bankruptcy twice this year
and the cuts are part of a re
restructuring and cost reduction plan
and pilots could be the next group to
see cuts. Spirit saying it wants to find
$100 million in cost savings from
pilots. That's brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, President Trump
returning to the UN.
>> At the center of our vision for national
renewal is an ambitious campaign to
reform international trade. I will never
fail
to defend America's interests. A
conversation up next with the former US
Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Admo
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equity futures on the S&P
shaping up as follows. Following three
days of gains on the benchmark stage
side at another all-time high. We're
down a tenth of 1% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by 0.1%. Also moments
ago, Morgan Stanley's Lisa Shallot
describing things at the moment as maybe
a little too sizzly. getting close to
the 99 type kind of stuff that she was
thinking about.
>> She said we're one bad earnings report
away from potentially even a 20%
pullback just because everyone's loaded
on one side. At the same time, you asked
her what do clients say to her. They
talk about getting out, which makes me
think this probably has more room to
run. It doesn't seem like this is
exactly a runaway train with no
skepticism.
>> More anxiety to feel the fire maybe. I
don't know. NASDAQ futures this morning
down about a tenth of 1%. and Sveners
this morning. President Trump returning
to the UN.
>> At the center of our vision for national
renewal is an ambitious campaign to
reform international trade. The American
people are absolutely committed to
restoring balance to our relationship
with China. I have made very clear I
will not accept a bad deal for the
American people. I will never fail
to defend America's interests.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump speaking to the
UN General Assembly at 10:30 a.m.
Eastern time. The president addressing
the group of world leaders for the first
time of his second term. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now for more.
Tyler, good morning.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. There's a few
different threads that we're following
on the policy front when it comes to the
speech. Of course, two conflicts
conflicts expected to take center stage.
won the war with Ukraine as President
Trump is set to meet today on the
sidelines with Ukrainian President
Zalinski and our allies are urging this
White House to commit to firmer security
guarantees. And the second, the war
between Hamas and Israel as several US
allies have moved to recognize an
independent Palestinian state. In recent
days, we are expecting President Trump
to use this speech to defend Israel's
right to defend itself. I'll also
quickly mention that domestic politics
will probably make their way into the
president's remarks. The White House
previewing it to us here at Bloomberg
that he will call on other countries to
tighten their asylum restrictions
ultimately in a bid to try to curb
immigration in the long run to the US.
But John, for context, uh hovering over
this backdrop, the context that
President Trump is speaking against is
that the US has been the largest
financial backer to the United Nations.
And President Trump has made clear he
doesn't feel that the organization has
been serving the US's purpose. In fact,
the US has actually stopped paying its
bills completely to the United Nations
since January when President Trump took
office. Combine that with prior
delinquencies from other administrations
and the US is currently on the hook for
$3 billion in dues to the United Nation.
Our analysts at Bloomberg Economics do
point out though uh John that either way
with or without the US, the UN is in
trouble. The secretary general in
January had declared a liquidity crisis
and it's currently trying to cut about a
fifth of its staff.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest here in
New York. Tyler, thank you. Joining us
around the table, the former deputy
treasury secretary, Wally Amo. Wally,
good to see you, sir.
>> It's great to see you as well.
>> You co-authored a piece recently in
foreign affairs. The title of which
reads as follows. The world economy was
already broken, but there is a better
way to fix it. Can we address the broken
piece first? What's broken about it?
What was broken already? At the core of
what was broken was China's use of
anti-competitive behavior to manipulate
the global trading system. And this is
exactly what needs to be addressed. And
I think President Trump has a choice. He
can try and do what former presidents,
including himself, has done, which is
negotiate a bilateral deal with the
Chinese. Or he can work together with
our allies and partners to put together
a set of policies that will hold China
accountable and lower tariffs on each
other. And I think that's the choice
that the president faces at the moment.
John mentioned this earlier and you
mentioned it in your piece about China
basically dumping on other markets,
especially since the barrier of entry
has gone up so high in the United
States. Isn't that going to force
countries like what Mexico is attempting
to do? Force countries to take on China
themselves and basically do what you're
saying, a collective unity against
China. I do think that gives the
president an opportunity because if
you're in Southeast Asia today, you're
in Europe today, you're seeing Chinese
over capacity, wash over your shores,
ruining your manufacturing sector, and
the question is what can you do? And
alone, it's hard for them to stand up to
China. But working together with a large
ally like the United States, it's
possible. But ultimately, the thing that
I found with all these countries is that
they move when they when there's a
leader, and the United States needs to
be that leader. So if the president
calls on them to work together to hold
China accountable, I think it's
possible. But left to their own devices,
it's really hard to stand up to a big
country like China or the United States.
>> But the Biden administration tried a
multilateral approach and it didn't
work.
>> I think the difference now is that the
president has changed the global trading
system by putting tariffs in place that
have reordered things. And it um while
it's created a lot of challenges
including headwinds here for consumers
and for the economy, it now creates an
opportunity because something new has to
happen. And that's what we talk about in
the piece that ultimately now the
president has the opportunity to either
say that we can all work together to
make sure that China's anti-competitive
behavior stops or we can try and
negotiate with China unilaterally. The
unilateral approach hasn't worked in the
past. At this point though, how do you
work together with other countries when
everyone is skeptical of one another and
essentially you're forcing them to take
a side? Because ultimately a lot of
countries, as you've mentioned, are
scared of China just as much as they're
scared of the United States.
>> I think you're right. There's a great
deal of skepticism out there. But when
you look at the global economy, it's
still concentrated in the hands of
countries that should be our closest
allies. The G7 make up almost 50% of the
global economy. If we were to act
together, only the G7, it would be a
large enough block to put real pressure
on the Chinese. So our we're calling for
the president to start with the
countries that we're closest with. And
ultimately the goal has to be that we
create an economy that not only works
better for the United States, which it
should, but works better for other
economies also because the more trade
that you do if you're a country, the
less aid you're going to need in the
future. So the key now for the president
is to talk to these countries who
ultimately need the United States
frankly because we are their big one of
their biggest consumers in the world to
try and work with them to put pressure
on the Chinese because the unilateral
approach previously at least hasn't
worked.
>> I just am wondering how much the world
order has already changed and already
shifted away from the United States
being able to play the role in the way
that it could have uh even a couple of
years ago. the idea, for example, of the
Ukraine Russia war and the repatriation
potentially of some of the holdings and
how much that's shifted foreign
currencies, foreign governments to buy
gold and diversify away from the dollar.
Is it too late? I think everybody always
says that but one in 2022 I was looking
at what should we do with regard to
Russia when they were thinking about
invading Ukraine and the Russians had
moved a bunch of their assets but more
than 88% of Russian bank transactions on
one side was still the dollar. It's
really hard to get away from the US
economy. We are the biggest economy in
the world. We're the biggest trading
economy. And while that is shifting over
time, I think this is the moment for us
to try and make sure that we build a
system that works better for us going
future. If we wait too long, and we say
this in the piece, China's use of
anti-competitive behavior will
fundamentally have changed the global
economy in a way that will make it
harder for the US to win going forward.
And not just the US, but for other
economies as well. That's why what we do
over the next few years is critical.
>> While you've been in the room, the
president truths a lot about how annoyed
he is with Europe that they continuously
buy Russian fossil fuels. It's been very
hard for them to really divest away. How
difficult it is to deal with the
Europeans. It is hard but I think the US
has a lot of leverage here especially
over one of the countries that is doing
this Hungary uh who's a big purchaser
and I think fundamentally one of the
things we've got to do is work with the
Europe to both end their purchases of
Russian energy. We did a lot to do that
in terms of providing Europe with LG to
replace Russian energy but we've also
got to take actions not only against
India um but against China who's a huge
purchaser but also a huge seller of the
goods to Russia that they need to build
the weapons they want for this war in
Ukraine. These stats on Chinese exports
are just phenomenal. This came from the
newsroom this morning. On track for a
record $1.2 trillion trade surplus
coming out of China. And if you look at
the exports to India, record high in
August. Shipments to Africa. On track
for an annual record to Southeast Asia,
exceeded their pandemic, prepandemic era
peak. Just figure that out. We're
talking about massive numbers. Yeah. Of
Chinese product that's just being now
dumped on the rest of the world. Yeah.
And you're gonna find out whether
they'll come along for the US or not for
the ride because it's really important.
You said Mexico. I wonder how many
people follow Mexico.
>> Yeah. And I'm wondering about, for
example, European auto manufacturers
considering how many uh electric
vehicles China has been offloading to
Europe. On the flip side, it hasn't been
supporting the Chinese economy. They've
been in a deflationary spiral. There's a
lot of questions about how much these
are unprofitable goods. There are a lot
of questions economically that are
underpinning this as well. What? It's
good to see you as always. Always
diplomatic. Thank you, sir. Wi Ario
there, the former deputy treasury
secretary. Up next on the program,
Miguel Stillwell. Dandra, the CEO of EDP
on the race to power artificial
intelligence. Plus, Danny has your
morning movers. Autozone shares falling
following their latest earnings. That
stock is down 2%.
[Music]
The president speaking later on this
morning. A preview of that speech coming
from the press. Secretary Caroline Lev
just moments ago. President Donald Trump
will highlight the return of American
strength during his speech at the UN
General Assembly while delivering blunt
and tough talk about the failures of
globalism. All of that still to come in
the next few hours.
>> Yeah. The president is set to take the
stage at 9:50. We're probably going to
hear a little bit of what Trump said
back in his first administration when it
comes to the United Nations, but also
going against the globalists kind of
what he said likely when you and Lisa
were at Davos earlier this year and
basically talking about how at least in
America they've rejected that world
order for now.
>> Back in the day 2019 of the first term,
there would be people in the audience
sneering at the president as he made
these points about what the Europeans
needed to do to change. You talk about
European energy, the relationship with
Russia. I don't sense the same sneering
this time around many years later.
>> There's a different landscape and I
think that there is a greater rejection
of some of the old norms. I think we're
in a new normal and the question is how
that's going to get rejiggered and
exactly what kind of leadership is going
to be provided for that next phase.
>> That's the policy talk coming up later
on this morning. In the market at the
moment, equity futures pulling back by
just a tenth of 1% on the S&P following
three days of gains on the S&P 500. On
the NASDAQ, down by just 0.06.
In the bond market, four consecutive
days of high yields following the
Federal Reserve decision last Wednesday
to reduce interest rates. This morning,
we pull back by just a basis point on
twos. Likewise on 10s, we're down to
41293 going into Chairman Pal later on
this afternoon.
>> How much does this really become the new
stasis as people try to understand
exactly what the balance of opinions is
on the Federal Reserve? I think the big
question not just for Jay Powell but for
some of the other speakers is
particularly Mickey Bowman who speaks in
about an hour and a half. How much do
they push back against the view of the
world that we heard from Steven Meyer
and how much do they embrace this idea
that the neutral rate could be
significantly lower?
>> Chairman Pal at 12:30 Eastern time as we
count you down to the opening pal about
2 hours away. Let's get you some morning
movers with more. Here's Danny. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Boeing shares are moving
higher this morning by more than 2% with
the US ambassador to China David Purdue
saying that there was a huge order in
the works from China to Boeing saying
that it would be a big deal for the
president and a big deal for China. Now,
Bloomberg did report last month that
China was working on finalizing an order
of about 500 aircraft from Boeing. So,
that could be this deal again with
shares rising this morning. Elsewhere,
Ken View making the work to snap back
some of the losses it had yesterday.
Shares are up just under 5%. They fell
yesterday after President Trump said
that pregnant women should avoid the
active ingredient in Ken View's Tylenol,
which is acetame. But there has been a
little bit of push back from the
research community. city, for example,
saying that no new scientific evidence
was offered and there is limited
judicial risk from the announcement. So,
they expect shares to come back.
Finally, a little bit of earnings this
morning. Autozone reporting they did
beat on their comparable sales. Net
sales though that was a miss. And
notably for them, margins were a miss.
And maybe even more notably, they had a
really, really big inventory buildup. It
was 14% higher than at this time last
year. That far exceeded analyst
estimates. just shows you for these
companies that are having to import
parts how difficult it is to grasp the
inventory picture and how much they
should hold. So those shares down more
than 2%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Danny in the next hour. Honor
Raal this morning. Nvidia investing 100
billion in open AI to expand the fleet
of data centers that power chat GBT. The
Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang saying it will be
the biggest AI infrastructure project in
history. Elsewhere, US Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson pledging support
to President Javier Mille to keep
Argentina from falling back into
financial crisis. The announcement
calming investors and prompting a
rebound in Argentina's assets. And
finally, President Donald Trump talking
with Democratic leaders as soon as this
week about a funding bill. House
Minority Leader Hakee Jeff and Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer requesting
the meeting ahead of the September 30th
shutdown deadline.
>> What's interesting about this is that
you have these three New Yorkers getting
in the Oval Office. Maybe they can hash
out a deal. But it remains unclear
whether the speaker Mike Johnson and the
Senate majority leader John Thoon will
be there to represent their case in
Congress. We're a week out from the
government shutting down or will Trump
be left almost to his own devices to try
to go into this to negotiate with the
Democrats himself from the executive
branch. I am old enough to remember when
people used to care about government
shutdowns. Right now there's almost a
70% chance baked into uh some of the
prediction markets that the government
will shut down. It's almost uh expected
that there will be some sort of uh
shutdown and people are saying well
unless it goes on for a month, two
months, 3 months, unless we're 6 months
out and we don't have a government then
we'll start to care. I mean it just
highlights how policy insensitive this
market has become and I think that that
is a notable takeaway from this.
>> The shutdown is a political event and
not a market event and we've all been
conditioned by experience to believe
that. That's what we've lived. Why would
that change anytime soon? Well, if it
carries on for long enough, there is
actual financial repercussions to this
and potentially they're even greater
should there be a rejiggering of some of
the power lines. But, you know, I'll go
with that. Maybe there's nothing.
>> There we go. Let's move on and talk
about a different kind of power line.
Let's turn back to AI. Nvidia pledging
to invest 100 billion in Open AI to help
build new data centers. According to the
Energy Information Administration, US
electricity prices are up 10% from
January to May of this year due in part
to massive spending and higher demand.
Miguel Stillwell. Dantrad is the CEO of
EDP, one of Europe's biggest wind energy
developers with projects also in the US.
Miguel joins us now for more this
morning here in New York. Miguel,
welcome to New York. It's good to see
you.
>> Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here.
>> Thank you for being here. Let's talk
about the US market, your outlook now
compared to where it was maybe 5 months
ago. How have things changed?
>> Well, I think the situation has become
much more stable. I think there's a lot
of uncertainty certainly at the
beginning of the year in terms of the
policies and so I think now we have at
least visibility with the big beautiful
bill and also with some of the guidance
from the IRS in terms of the growth for
the next couple of years in renewables
in general. So solar, batteries, wind as
you know we have 10 gigawatts here over
20 billion uh invested $20 billion
invested in the US. So I think things
are more stable and that gives us you
know some optimism for the future.
>> Do you need a partnership with the White
House for this to work? I think we need
a stable framework, a stable legislative
uh framework to be able to invest and I
think that's what we're looking for.
>> And so you feel like that that it has
been sufficient even with some of the
push back from the White House uh about
wind turbines. We think that uh
President Trump doesn't like them,
right? He thinks that they're ugly and
he doesn't like them near his uh golf
courses. I mean, how much does that
really affect
>> and they're bad for the birds?
>> I mean, how much does that affect your
investment plans?
>> So, I think it's important that well,
we're agnostic in relation to
technologies. We invest in wind and
solar and batteries. that we also have
gas turbines certainly back in Europe.
Um what I think is important is to have
competitive energy, cheap, reliable and
that it should be if possible you know
not have any emissions and so that's
what we're aiming for. I think wind is a
perfectly good technology. It's very
mature is being rolled out sort of
across the US and across big parts of
the world and it provides clean energy
at competitive prices and it helps a lot
of the land owners. I mean, some of our
biggest advocates are actually the
people that we work with on the ground
in the local communities because for a
lot of the farmers, this is another
source of revenue that they can get from
these projects.
>> We've talked a lot about the energy
needed to power artificial intelligence
and some of the hopes and dreams of some
of the big tech uh players that have
been fueling a lot of the market rally.
I just wonder how much of a deficit
there is in power generation right now
versus the hopes and dreams of the
NVIDIA, the Open AIs, the Microsofts,
the Googles. And I think it's u
relatively well known that one of the
biggest obstacles to rolling out AI is
the power is access to power and
certainly here in the US although that's
also true in other parts of the world.
So we're seeing huge demand and I think
going back to in terms of technologies
what are the technologies that are
available to supply that power. I mean
no one is building any new coal power
plants. Maybe you can extend them a
little bit longer. Nuclear you might
like it but it's going to take time
quite a lot of time to be able to
actually implement it. uh gas turbines
take relatively long still to to get
them implemented. So actually the
projects that are uh most available to
actually be implemented in the short
medium term are actually renewable
projects. Solar, wind, batteries, all of
those. If it's cheap, if it's
competitive, if it's secure, use it.
>> We've heard a lot about deregulation
from this administration. Are they
actually cutting the red tape to take on
projects like this in an accelerated
fashion?
>> So um we're still seeing some
bottlenecks. It's not particularly true
of this administration. I think we've
been advocating for quite a while that
we should, you know, accelerate all the
permiting and licensing. Access to the
network, for example, is super critical
in a lot of the key markets in the US.
Um, this is something that affects
infrastructure projects, I think, in
general. And we, you know, have been
pushing to try and simplify that as much
as possible.
>> When it comes to the supply chain for a
lot of these materials, a lot of that is
coming from China. How have the tariffs
impacted your company? So about 2 or 3
years ago we completely reconfigured our
supply chain and most of our supply
chain is actually in the US. So we use
domestically made products whether it's
uh panels that are made in the US. We
have a framework agreement for example
with for solar uh batteries. Um so we
tend to try to use as much as possible
domestically made equipment. It is more
expensive than if you import it.
Although nowadays with the uncertainty
around the tariffs uh we prefer to uh
pay that premium but ensure sort of a
stable supply chain. How feasible is
this? Right now, China is dominating the
uh solar, the wind, all renewable
energies. Their battery plants have been
far exceeding what the US uh production
capacity has been. How much more
expensive is it to source it
domestically? How far behind are some of
the technologies in the United States?
>> I think you have to separate what's the
cost of the panels versus, let's say,
then that the additional tariffs or the
additional costs on top of them. The the
underlying cost to produce them here in
the US. um you know maybe are two times
what it would cost um elsewhere um then
that can be compounded if you have sort
of tariffs on top of that but I think
the key issue here is if you can um
increase the critical mass of the local
production of the national production
then you can hopefully bring those costs
down over time so I think building out
that supply chain I think you need to
continue to invest in it to actually
bring those costs down
>> is it harder to have a global footprint
now
>> uh you need to be more careful about um
where you are I mean infrastructure
energy infrastructure projects projects
are typically very longdated. So we
invest over 30 years. So we like to be
in places you know where rule of law is
important, strong institutions where you
can have that predictability over the
long term. So we are you know very
focused on a couple of key countries.
The US is one of them uh where we really
invest for the long term.
>> That's what I wanted to build on. Are
you looking to narrow the scope of the
countries you're in?
>> So we were in about um over 20 countries
almost 30 countries. Uh we've been
pairing that down. We're going to be
sort of closer to 15 countries and we
are exiting some of the non-core
countries that either had less critical
mass or that we didn't feel as
comfortable in. So, we're going to
really focus more.
>> Where are you most comfortable at the
moment making additional long-term
investments?
>> Europe, US, um some places in Southeast
Asia, for example, um Singapore, we like
Australia, we like Japan. Um we have a
big investment in Brazil. Um slightly
different risk profile, but we're pretty
comfortable there as well. How much do
you expect uh that to change over time
or this is sort of the new order as you
see? Are there countries that you no
longer will participate in?
>> Uh well, I think it's been changing now
and um I think our strategy has been to
really keep a low risk profile. So I
think you know we certainly think that
this will carry out over the next couple
of years. We don't see this changing if
anything only getting worse. um you know
we've been very careful about or we see
I think as does everyone sort of the
decoupling and some need for d-risking
and uh and so we're you know we're
following that strategy as well.
>> What do you have to say about the CTG
and the biggest shareholder 21% stake?
What do you think they want to do with
that stake? I
>> think they're an investor like many
others. I mean 80% of our investors are
either US institutions, Canadian pension
funds, uh you know we have investors
from the uh Middle East, we have
investors from Europe. So, um, hopefully
they're a happy investor and, um, like
all of our other investors.
>> Miguel, I appreciate your time. Good
luck for the rest of the week. Thanks
for being here. Thank you, sir. Miguel,
Stillwell, Dandra, the CEO of EDP. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief,
the latest worldwide with Yahara. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi, John. Argentine assets surged after
the US pledged financial support for
President Javier Mille. Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant said on X that
all options were on the table to help
arrest the run on the Argentine peso due
to political uncertainty. Full details
will likely only emerge after Mille
meets President Trump at the UN General
Assembly later today. Meanwhile, NATO is
promising a robust response to repeated
Russian airspace incursions. The
military alliance says it will use all
options to defend itself after Estonia
said Russian jets violated its airspace
last week. NATO is already strengthening
its eastern flank with continuous air
patrols under Operation Eastern Sentry.
And week three of the NFL season wrapped
up with the Detroit Lions defeating the
Baltimore Ravens in a highscoring
thriller 38-30. The Lions rushing attack
led by David Montgomery and Jir Gibbs
combined for over 200 yards and four
touchdowns. The Lions also sacked Jamar
Lamar Jackson seven times, tying his
careerh high. Dutchburg brief John
>> Johara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, Governor Myron making the case to
go big.
>> In my opinion, it's imperative that we
get closer to neutral quickly. And so I
thought three, you know, sort of a
series of 50s to recalibrate interest
rates was the appropriate policy.
>> That conversation up next with Kristen
Biddley of City live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The oven about a few hours away at the
moment. Equities are doing okay, just
slightly negative on the S&P 500,
closing at all-time highs in yesterday's
session for a 28th time in 2025. The
equity benchmark just a little bit
lower, down by not even a tenth of 1%,
totally unchanged on the NASDAQ so far
this morning. Under surveillance this
morning, Governor Myron making the case
to go big.
In my opinion, it's imperative that we
get closer to neutral quickly. And so I
thought three, you know, sort of a
series of 50s to recalibrate interest
rates was the appropriate policy. My
view is that policy is is is roughly two
points too restrictive. Even though I am
expecting growth to be a little bit
better in the future that could get
derailed uh unnecessarily so and create
an output gap where one may not exist uh
if we don't get policy closer to
neutral.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Steven Meyer making the case for
aggressively lowering interest rates to
avoid damaging the economy. The newly
minted Fed governor making the remarks
in his first speech since joining the
FOMC. Joining us now to discuss the head
of investment solutions at City, Kristen
Biddley. Kristen, good morning.
>> Good morning. How are you?
>> It's been too long. We've got some rate
cuts or at least one so far. The
prospect of more to come. What kind of
activity is that unlocking for your
clients and what are you advocating for
them to do at the moment?
>> I think for right now this was largely
anticipated and expected. So I think if
we would have had any change then there
would have been changes in the portfolio
but for right now we're sticking to our
guns and and staying fully invested.
We're balanced across fixed income and
equities with a quality bias and also
leaning towards the US market as well.
And so for us there's no real change
unless we see a deterioration in the
employment backdrop or unless we see
inflation start to accelerate
>> for people sitting in cash at the front
end of the curve and looking at where
Fed funds is which is still north of the
curve all the way out close to tens at
the moment.
>> Yeah. just below 10 at the moment or
around that level. What are these saying
to you about the incentive to go out
along the curve and what kind of what
kind of argument can you make for them
to get out of cash and put it elsewhere?
>> Yeah, it's a great question because when
you look at cash is certainly building
up on the sidelines and I would say
there's always that argument around the
$7.6 trillion that's sitting on the
sidelines, but quite candidly that's
only increasing. It's not decreasing.
And so when you look at our portfolios,
we're not advocating for long duration
at all. I think you have to be weary of
some inflationary pressures. So the
average duration in our portfolios is
around 5 years. I think that catalyst
from going from cash into a 5-year
duration, we have to be realistic about
the investor psychology. So what we see
more often is not your traditional 6040
portfolio, but maybe a 603010 where that
cash position people will hold it so
they can be more nimble.
>> There is this issue of what's the best
hedge against inflation? Couldn't it
just be stocks? Isn't that almost what
people are betting?
>> Sure. Yeah, I think it is and I think
there's actually a defensive play in
terms of the largest free cash flow
generating companies and I know you guys
have been discussing this all morning in
terms of where should you be invested
particularly in equity markets. I think
as an inflationary hedge we have gold in
our portfolios. I know many many asset
managers do as well but when you look at
where you want to be within US equity
markets I think the major debate right
now is do we want to lean into momentum
and the winners or do we want to play
this broadening out trade? I think the
broadening out trade, while certainly it
can deliver returns, I think it's still
tricky because when you look at small
caps, their earnings are declining.
They're not growing. And then you look
at these large companies, they've
contributed over 60% of the earnings
growth this year. So, while it feels
weird to be invested there, I think you
have to play the momentum.
>> At the same time, as we were talking
about this morning, the Nvidia OpenAI
deal, the idea that uh Nvidia is
investing hundred billion dollars for
OpenAI to buy their products. Exactly.
So it creates this feeling that we're
all hinging on this circular bet within
big tech names that isn't yes yet
getting ratified in the profitability in
the rest of the economy. At what point
does that feel wrong?
>> I think the main question is almost what
is the bare case from here and that's
one of the questions when we see all of
this capex spending when we see like
what is the timeline for that when you
will actually see the returns and I
think investors are patient. I think
it's more um I I saw a piece recently
where it was innocent until proven
guilty. And so looking out like one to
three years, I think there's patience in
that investment, but I do think we have
Q3 earnings coming up and there's if
there's one miss or if we don't have a
beat and a raise, I think you will see a
pullback in the market. When you talk to
clients, what are they most concerned
about right now? You mentioned in your
notes this tugof-war between the AI
story, but maybe even tariffs at some
point hitting them next year. How are
clients just dismissive as Lisa
Charlotte said of what's coming out of
policy or is it still in the back of
their mind brewing?
>> I agree with Lisa in in her comments. I
think there's almost like there's tariff
fatigue. So it's almost that you that
was the dominating conversation a couple
of months ago and now it's I'm not it's
not really even a question that clients
are asking. And so I think the major
thing on on investors minds right now is
really trying to position for the longer
term, understanding that short term
there could be some volatility. there
could be some pressure one way or the
other, but where are you positioned
longer term and and really the the
balance between private and public
markets?
>> Is that a cap weighted US index? Is that
how I position for the long term? Still
>> still I think when you look at again
we're we're not in the camp of this
broadening out trade right now. And so
you could probably see some some strong
returns particularly with um interest
rates coming down and you don't want to
fight the Fed on that. But I think like
when you look at the name of the game is
really quality and free cash flow
generation and who's going to be able to
make those types of not hundred billion
dollar investments but but similar to
really kind of fuel the growth.
>> Let's build on that. Why don't you like
small caps had a great run off the back
of the repricing of the Fed? Why is this
just another head fake?
>> Because I don't think it's based on
fundamentals. And so when you look at
okay, if there are inflationary
pressures, if there's part of the market
that is going to be exposed to tariffs
ultimately, if there's part of the
market that's not going to be able to do
that capex spending, who's going to get
left behind? It's smaller companies. So
maybe through M&A, you could see some
activity there. But I think this is
really a a market that's going to be
driven by those making the investments
and seeing the return on these
investments. The main argument has been
the rate cutting cycle could potentially
provide a boost to the rest of the
economy in a way that some people
weren't expecting. Has that all been
priced in already? Or do you think that
there could be some sort of upside
surprise in the rest of the market as a
result of potentially an even greater
degree of doubbishness in the Fed come
after May of next year?
>> I think it's largely at this moment if
we're just looking from here to the end
of the year. I think it's largely been
priced in especially for for small caps.
again these rallies that have been
driven more not on fundamentals but
almost expecting that that Fed momentum
I I just see better opportunities in
other parts of the market.
>> You pointed something out in your notes
and I love this. The idea that every
single time that the Fed has been
cutting rates at a time when the
market's been at a record high every
single time the one year out the market
was up and often up considerably. Why
not just overweight risk right now?
>> So great question. um in in our notes,
basically what we shared was when the
Fed since 1980 um has with markets at
all-time highs, the times that the Fed
has started to cut rates, we've seen
positive returns. We actually just saw
that last year. So in September of 2024,
we got a rate cut, we're now up about
17.5%
um since last September. So I think you
still have to strike a balance though
because what are the risks on the
horizon? You don't want to be allin on
equities in an environment where you
still have what are the risks you
basically have earnings and someone not
delivering on earnings and given that
concentration you could see some
downward pressure. You also have the
deficit which is another major risk and
we have to talk about labor too that
when you look at the labor market that
is something that while we could say
it's stalled it is softening and we're
starting to see this emergence of why is
the labor market stalling. Is it because
of AI and people holding off? Is it
because of tariffs? Is it because of
immigration? There's really three cases
there. But if we see the labor market
continue to deteriorate, that's
something that will ultimately impact
consumer spending.
>> The labor market for grant is just
awful. Terrible. We've all seen the
numbers. Does not look good at all.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's personal issue. Uh
it's also something that very much
speaks to the economy and the idea of
upward mobility at a time when there are
all these other pressures, cost of
housing, uh and and the like. How much
are companies truly replacing entry-
level talent with AI? How much are they
using that as a smoke screen simply
because they don't feel very confident
about the trajectory going forward?
>> Don't know. But I wonder if the much
tighter restrictions around H-1B support
or complement the effort to try and do
something about the lack of employment
right now for graduates in this country.
>> It's a good question how much that
really comes in parallel and that's the
reason why some people have supported uh
more homegrown talent. I also wonder
who's going to push back get that
lobbying engine back in uh Washington DC
and what exactly uh some of the
carveouts are going to look like. That's
all Washington DC is, right?
>> Lobbying.
>> Just a big lobbying effort. Isn't that
what it is?
>> And it's also one of those things where
you could see a market that continues to
grind higher, earnings continuing to go
higher and the unemployment rate going
higher, which is something we haven't
seen, but that is a reality.
>> Something to watch. Kristen, it's good
to see you.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> Thank you. Kristen Bidley there of CT
from New York City. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance is up next.
The Fed's in a difficult position, but
it's certainly taking a risk by lowering
interest rates.
>> They have room to maneuver. They have
room to come down some on the policy
rate and still put downward pressure on
inflation.
>> The flattening that we've seen is a bit
of a buy the rumor, sell the news on the
back of the Fed. The Fed is cutting on
risk management grounds into what may be
the early stages of a cyclical
reaceleration.
>> You kind of have the benefits of fat
cuts without the penalty.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this.
following three days of gains on the S&P
500 and a 28th record high of the year
so far. Equities pulling back by not
even a tenth of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ totally unchanged in the bond
market. Four consecutive days of higher
bond yields now lower by a single basis
point on twos. Down two or three on 10
to 41196 going into this speech later on
this afternoon at 12:35 Eastern time.
the chairman of the Federal Reserve,
Jake Pal.
>> The chairman for now and how much will
what he says actually give a guidance as
to the Fed policy that will be followed.
I'm just struck by right now what
markets are saying. They're saying the
Fed can cut rates, have a cutting cycle
of 125 basis points more cuts by the end
of next year without a recognition of
inflation while allowing markets to go
to record highs. It is essentially the
soft landing that everyone was talking
about without the landing part. And it
raises a question of is everything
priced to perfection predicated on a
very narrow path or have we reached a
place of stasis amid policy uncertainty
where people don't care and are watching
earnings go up and an economy chug
along.
>> People are getting uncomfortable and by
people I mean Lisa Shannon Morgan
Stanley who was on the program about an
hour ago comparing this to the late '9s
and saying perhaps things are getting a
little bit too silly. the idea that
maybe the biggest bull case right now is
the absence of a bear case. People can't
see what could disrupt this. The point
that she made uh and that Kristen
bitterly made as well is that we're one
bad earnings report away from a
significant draw down. And that I think
is the key. How much are people hinging
the entire positive outlook on the idea
that these big tech giants can keep
generating massive amounts of cash at a
time when they are investing
increasingly in each other and companies
are not showing the profitability to the
degree that many people were hoping?
There's that angst I get the sense from
these investors given what Lisa Shallot
said. One earnings miss is what could
ruin it. Not the policy uncertainty from
Washington, not the Fed rate cut. And
she said news headlines haven't been a
catalyst. Markets have become almost
dismissive of what the president said.
He really set the tone in April when he
backtracked. Now it feels like
everyone's hinging on what the Fed's
going to do. But more importantly, what
is Nvidia going to report next quarter?
That's the big driver.
>> November 19th. Got to wait a while, few
months before we get there. We've been
talking about this for a number of
weeks. Okay.
>> It basically is going to be 2026 when we
get Nvidia's report.
>> I wish they'd move that, but we've made
that argument a few times, you know.
Let's bring it in. Is it all them or
ultimately will it also come down to
some smaller companies and how much
they're actually using AI? Whether they
can monetize it or they're just
investing it in little bots that talk to
each other.
>> If Nvidia is investing in them, that'll
be more important to hear from those
companies in this new circular AI
economy.
>> Going to get Ed Lllo to fix this next
time he speaks to Jensen. Coming up on
the program, we'll catch up with Lisan
Sanders of Charles Swab as stocks trade
near alltime highs highs. will speak to
Gil Laura of DA Davidson as Nvidia is
betting big on OpenAI and Steven Stanley
of Santandere with Fed Share J Pal said
to speak later on today. We begin this
hour with stock steady Lizan Saunders of
Charles Swap warning the market may be
too topheavy writing the following
investors face a risk the market breath
narrows and performance becomes overly
dependent on a few dominant stocks. This
dynamic can distort perceptions of
market health. Lisan joins us now for
more. Lisan, good morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> Good to see you and welcome to New York.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you for coming in. Let's talk
about that quote right there and whether
you believe we're becoming more or less
dependent on just a handful of stocks at
the moment.
>> We're becoming um still very dependent
on a smaller handful of stocks though.
So if you look at the cohort of the
Magnificent 7 uh just to pick a cohort
as opposed to say the top 10. Only four
of those stocks now are outperforming
the S&P 500 and the best among them no
surprise Nvidia is only the 47th best
performing stock in the S&P 500. meaning
46 stocks within that index have better
performance than Nvidia. Nvidia is the
largest contributor to cap weighted S&P
gains, but it's not the best performer.
The MAG 7 are all in the NASDAQ. Nvidia
as the number one performer among the
MAG 7 is ranked, I think 630th within
the NASDAQ. So, I think we're starting
to see more dispersion even among these
concentrated cohorts. You've also got
correlation within the S&P has come down
dispersion widening out. So I actually
think it's not a bad backdrop from a
stock picker perspective. It it levels
the playing field a little bit more for
active relative to passive.
>> Let's build on that just a little bit
more. So Kristen Bidley was with us
about 15 minutes ago and she said for
long-term investors stick with the cap
weighted index. That's the way to go.
What are the risks around that given
what you just said? Well, you've got the
concentration problem embedded in that
index with the 10 largest names
representing 40% of the index. That's an
all-time high. Even the top five names
represent close to 30% of the index. So,
you are you're you're certainly
guaranteeing the cap weighted return on
the upside, but there's a downside to
it. Now, memories tend to be short. All
you have to do is look back to earlier
this year the midFebruary to early April
uh bare market in the case of the NASDAQ
near bare market in the case of the S&P
but many of those stack stocks were the
drags on on performance. So it does work
in the other way and we always say to
our investors pretty much all 11.2 2
trillion dollars of our client assets
are individual investors and leaving
aside the take a passive approach and
index to the S&P. You don't have to take
the same concentration risk. If you're
an institution and you're benchmarked
against the cap weighted S&P on a
quarterly basis, you are at the mercy of
the construction of the indexes. But if
you're an individual investor, you're
not being benchmarked against the S&P on
a quarterly basis. you can take more of
a stockpicking approach and not take
that risk of having such a concentrated
portfolio.
>> Isn't that concentration a feature, not
a bug? And I say this at a time when
we're talking about the potential for an
outperformance of the S&P 500 and the
NASDAQ, even with a labor economy that
is questionable right now.
>> Well, it's a feature in keeping the cap
weighted index returns high. But here's
a stat. um just since the April 8th
closing low, S&P has not even had a 2%
uh draw down over that period of time,
continual record highs. But the average
member within the S&P has had a 14% draw
down since April 8th. The average member
within the NASDAQ has had a 32% draw
down just since April 8th. So there's a
lot of churn and rotation under the
surface. It's a feature in that all you
need is a few mega cap stocks to bring
those cap weighted indexes. I just think
the fuller story, not the real story,
but the fuller story is told under the
surface of these cap weighted indexes.
>> John was mentioning Kristen Bitterly who
is just here and she is talking about
the cap weighted and not necessarily the
broadening out trade. She doesn't
necessarily see that gaining traction.
Do you disagree based on the idea that
you have seen this draw down and the
average stock outside of the magnificent
seven and that those companies
potentially could be the most
beneficially affected by a rate cutting
cycle that a lot of people are
expecting?
>> Yeah, that's certainly the the macro
fundamental reason why small caps caught
a bid. Uh particularly given that the
real surge was tied to Powell's Jackson
Hole uh speech. Um, I think one way to
think about the broadening out, the fact
that Russell 2000 finally hit a new
all-time high last time prior to this
one had occurred was 2021
is I think staying up in quality still
makes a lot of sense. And and one piece
of advice that we provide to investors
not to buy an index tracking, but if you
use index as a source for ideas, Russell
2000 is still on the lower quality end
of the spectrum given that 40% of the
stocks are some combination of
nonprofitable or uh zombie companies.
Whereas the S&P uses a profitability
filter in constructing their S&P 600. So
it's inherently a higher quality index.
And in fact, looking ahead, S&P 600
earnings outlook versus S&P 500 earnings
outlook, the former has a much better
trajectory, mid to high 20% range in
terms of 2026 earnings versus uh more in
the kind of mid- teens for the uh for
the S&P 500.
>> How correlated is the Russell these
small caps to do well with how quickly
the Fed continues on a cutting cycle?
that I think would be a a a risk that
the outperformance trend does not
persist is if the Fed has to cut short
the cutting cycle. Uh not dissimilar to
what happened last fall. Um and I you
know the one thing that's interesting is
we've seen that edging up on the part of
the long end very much in keeping with
what happened last year when the Fed cut
by 100 bips and the 10-year went up by
the same amount. Mortgage rates went up
by 80 basis points. When you mentioned
these capwitted indexes, they're so
sector focused and concentrated. So,
isn't it doing the opposite of what
investors want? Where are people
diversifying?
>> Um, again, I think the the active
approach, I think there's a reason why
active ETFs, the growth rate in active
ETFs is higher than the growth rate in
passive ETFs. Now, part of the reason
why it's a higher growth rate is it's
coming off a lower base because passive
ETFs have been much more popular. But I
think that is a bit of a tell that there
are investors looking for opportunities
outside of just the cap dominance within
these cap weighted indexes.
>> Does this feel bubbly to you? You've
seen it all. Let's finish that.
>> I have seen it all.
>> How does it feel?
>> Almost 40 years doing this. Um I I'd say
the the big difference, probably the
most important difference between now
and the late 1990s is there's more there
there in terms of of you know massive
cash flow generation. There's there's
there's actually a denominator in the
valuation equation. Now, there was no
denominator in the valuation equation. I
mean, we we all look now through the
benefit of hindsight and say, boy, was
that just so silly and you know that the
the attaching of dot to companies that
had nothing to do with that. So, there
is more there there. But again going
back to that period just this year
midFebruary to early April when you had
the deepseek news and concern about
whether the massive amount of spend was
indeed a protective moat built around
these hyperscalers. I I think that we
can go through valuation adjustments
necessary valuation adjustments or even
just periods where you get about a
profit taking um that is distinguished
from what ultimately happened in 99
2000. I think it's a right tail risk uh
for the market uh maybe with similar
probability as what would be the left
tail risk which I think the left tail
risk is a recession which I don't think
is priced into the the market but these
are much higher quality companies than
was the case in the late '90s. I just
sense the discomfort from a lot of
people with some of the recent
announcements, whether it was Oracle in
the last few weeks or this one from
Nvidia to OpenAI. They will look back in
a few years and they're worried about
feeling foolish looking back and
thinking, well, wasn't it obvious this
company came out, invested this money so
this other company could buy their
stuff? Like, shouldn't we look at that
and say, that doesn't make sense. That's
a house of cards. Shouldn't we look at
the fact that Nvidia's customers are
almost entirely the hyperscalers, almost
entirely the Microsofts and the
Alphabets and the Oracles and this idea
that it is a sort of closed cycle and
we're not seeing it in the broader
economy. And you add on top of that the
sense that almost everyone is saying up
and more up and they're upgrading the
forecast. It's making people
uncomfortable but that discomfort can
prolong the cycle and that I think is
what key people keep saying
>> and they're the companies making money.
To Lzanne's point, there is some there
there Lisan, it's good to see you here.
Thanks for being here. Lisan Summers
Charles Swab. Thank you. Thank you very
much. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with that massive AI
deal. Nvidia is set to invest as much as
$100 billion in Open AI to support new
data centers and other AI
infrastructure. The agreement will help
OpenAI build the data centers using
Nvidia's advanced AI chips. The
investment will be provided in stages
with an initial $10 billion. Nvidia
shares popped nearly 4% yesterday on the
news to close at a record high.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration has
linked Tylenol to autism, urging
pregnant women to avoid it. The move
comes despite a lack of widely accepted
scientific evidence supporting the risk.
Still, the FDA recommended doctors
consider minimizing the pain medication
for low-grade fevers while noting a
causal relationship between autism and
Tylenol has not been established.
And the US Secret Service says it
interrupted a network of devices that
could have severely disrupted cellular
service in New York. Authorities say the
SIM cards and SIM servers were used to
threaten senior US government officials.
While world leaders gather here for the
UN General Assembly, the Secret Service
says it bore signs of foreign
involvement. That's your brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara about 30 minutes from now. Up
next on the program, the morning calls
plus Gil Lauria of DA Davidson as Nvidia
is betting big on open AI from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
The key driver of this bull market has
been a AI and tech and the key driver
for the overall market has been those
earnings from these companies. Does it
raise some you know eyebrows a little
bit? Sure. But in the in the near term,
you know, I think this means our
earnings continue to move up and that
continues to support this tech trade and
the overall market.
>> That was Keith Lerner of Truiser
sticking with it in the equity market
following three days of gains. It's a
quiet market so far this morning.
Futures going nowhere on the S&P 500.
Likewise on the NASDAQ, things get a
little busier in about an hour and 30
minutes when we get some US PMI data for
you. A read on the start of September. I
think that's important coming out of the
summer. Are we actually seeing a pickup
in the US economy? It's what the market
is priced for. It's what many companies
are guiding for.
>> Yeah. And how much can manufacturing
play a part in this? This is sort of
underpinning a lot of the hopes and
dreams of the uh resurrection of the US
economy as it's going to be with greater
degree of manufacturing and we have seen
that. Do you see the PMIs confirm that
after what we saw in Europe? Again, this
goes to this question of is the
reaceleration just a US story or is it
international?
>> And then after the PMIs, you'll hear
from chairman pow. That's the main event
for the Fespeak later on this afternoon
at 12:35 Eastern time in the bond market
at the moment. In anticipation of that,
following 4 days of high yield, a little
bit lower across the curve this morning,
2's out to 30s. The 2-year down by a
basis point, the 10year down by a little
bit more than that. The yield on a
10-year maturity this morning at about
413. That's the price action. Let's get
you some morning calls. First up, Wells
Fargo upgrading core weave to
overweight, saying demand signals are
too strong to ignore. Their stock is up
by 1.6%. Your second call from Morgan
Stanley raising his price target on
Oracle to 320, expecting fundamental
changes in its revenue growth from
massive contracts. The stock is down
about 1% this morning. Big rally to
start the week for that name. And
finally, Evercore raising its price
target on Nvidia to 225 following its
deal with Open AI, seeing Nvidia as
uniquely positioned to help open AAI
with its infrastructure buildout. Let's
stick with Nvidia and their story. Gil
Laura of DAD Davidson maintaining his
buy rating but has some worries
following the deal. Gil writes the
following. Well, the announcement is
positive for OpenAI's ability to ramp.
We are concerned Nvidia has become the
investor of last resort, banning out
OpenAI's overextended commitments. Gil
joins us now for more. Gil, welcome to
the program, sir. I'd love your
perspective on this. Just how
uncomfortable are you following that
deal announcement and why?
We are uncomfortable because if the
market really was as good as as it as
Nvidia and Open AI said yesterday, there
would be other capital available to Open
AI as opposed to the vendor that's
supplying the AI trade. We really need
to start separating what's real, what's
healthy from what's unhealthy. And
you've had a great discussion so far
this morning about this. Let's talk
about what's healthy. Microsoft, Amazon,
Google are healthy. They have the real
customers and they have the capital to
invest in new data centers to provide a
to provide AI. AI the models are
fantastic. They are doing things we
never imagined they could do and they
keep getting better. People are using
them for more things. They're bringing
them to work. That is very real. On the
other hand, we have c companies like
OpenAI making commitments that there's
no way they can live up to. Let's not
forget Microsoft has right of first
refusal for all of OpenAI's compute. So,
they're going to handle most of it. Open
Edge just committed $300 billion of
compute commitments to Oracle, another
hundred billion dollar to backup,
another $25 billion to Coree, and then
signed up for projects in the UK and the
Gulf. They don't have that capital. They
just they're on a 12 billion revenue run
rate, and they're going to lose probably
10 or 20 billion dollars this year.
They're building hardware. They're
building a consumer product that is not
real. So you have to be careful about
the marginal trades here. Interesting
talking about coreweave and Oracle
upgrades. Those are the marginal
players. Those companies have neither
customers nor capital unlike Microsoft,
Amazon, Google that have both. They're
just dumping them over the excess demand
onto Cororeweave and Oracle. As soon as
they have enough of the capacity they
need, they won't need those marginal
players. Those marginal players are the
bubble.
>> Gil, this to me is is fascinating. I'd
love to unpack that. This idea of all of
the commitments that OpenAI is
promising. What actually are they
promising as part of those commitments?
I mean, you could make the argument they
could be the next alphabet, right? that
they could really compete with Google in
a material way and then that could be
worth it in terms of their valuation and
some of their software provisions as
well as their algorithms. Where do you
see the disconnect in what they're
actually offering?
>> So the operative word in what you just
said is could.
>> Unlike Google that ran away with search,
uh, OpenAI is in a very competitive
market. We don't know that they're going
to have the the winning solution. They
have a lead now, but so did Yahoo and so
did MySpace. What we know is that Google
is has models that are just as good, if
not better than OpenAI. Anthropic for
certain things has models that are just
as good as better. We know Zuckerberg is
investing tens hundreds of billions of
dollars at building a different model.
We know there's Chinese models. Open is
not going to run away with it. They have
a lead. They may participate, but the
likelihood that they'll run away with it
and need 500 billion dollars of compute
over the next five years is is pretty
far-fetched.
>> Given some of the commitments that
you've been talking about, the 300
billion to Oracle, the 100 billion
investment announced overnight start you
start adding this all up, it's real
money. I just wonder Gil at what point
if you see an open AI show its
vulnerability, how much that disrupts
the larger ecosystem in a real material
way from a valuation perspective and
beyond.
>> Yeah, it'll cause disruption. Again, I
would be weary of the marginal players
here because they're going to be the
ones that get hit the worst. Nvidia will
keep selling chips. Microsoft will
continue providing services to its
customers. So will Amazon Web Services.
So will Google Cloud. But I'd be weary
of all the incremental marginal trades
on AI that are really getting out of
control right now. Nvidia is the most
attractive direct bet on AI right now.
That's why we moved to buy because at 28
times earnings, they're trading at a
lower multiple than any of those
marginal players in spite of the fact
that they're going to win one way or
another. whether they sell chips just to
Microsoft, Amazon or Google or to more
companies beyond that is is isn't as
important. The demand for data centers
is there because AI is potent. Just be
aware of where you're investing in that.
>> Well, last week we saw Nvidia take an
investment in Intel. This week it's open
AI. Who's going to be next?
Well, so in a in a different world,
Nvidia would be buying a lot of these
companies, but we are in a world where
the big techs cannot make acquisitions.
So, they're going to have to make these
types of investments, aqua hires, etc.
Now, Intel is a little bit of a
different matter. Intel is a strategic
investment in the ability to move the
supply chain to the United States after
the US government stepped in and said
that they will ensure that would happen.
That facilitated Nvidia coming in and
saying, you know what, we are going to
put Intel into our ecosystem, make sure
they have a viable customer so they can
ramp up their 14A technology. We'll
bring them into the data center, which
is a little ironic considering Nvidia is
the one that wiped the floor with Intel
for so many years in the data center
market. Now that they've defeated Intel,
they can bring them back in as a
marginal player.
>> Gil, I've got 45 seconds. It sounds like
the company you really have an issue
with right now is Oracle and the move
we've seen so far this month. Can I just
give you 45 seconds just to explain what
is your problem with that move this
month?
that $400 billion dollars of Oracle's
market cap is tied to one company,
OpenAI, that has made commitments that
there is no way it can live up to. So if
that much of your market cap is tied to
one commitment that really is untenable
for all the reasons we just discussed,
maybe that's a little too much. It's
been how they've expended their
remaining performance obligations from
80 billion to 455.
The vast majority of that is OpenAI.
That is the entire move on Oracle's
stock. I would revisit that calculation.
>> Gil, it's your opinion. We appreciate
hearing it. Thank you, sir. Gil Luri
there of DA Davidson. Thank you, sir.
The latest on Oracle and some of the big
moves we've seen this month alone.
>> Larry Ellison, if you want to call in,
please go ahead. I'd love your rebuttal
to that because I think it's actually a
sell point.
>> NASDAQ futures this morning just about
unchanged, very close to all-time highs.
Up next, Steven Stanley of Santandere
with Fetch JPAL set to speak later on
today.
[Music]
We are 60 minutes out from the opening
bell and equity futures are only
slightly negative on the S&P, just
pulling back from alltime highs on the
S&P 500. with your morning movers, your
single names. Here's Danny Ber. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. One of the best performing
stocks in the S&P 500 pre premarket is
Boeing this morning, up 2.4% after the
US ambassador to China, David Purdue,
said that there was a huge order in the
works of Boeing aircrafts by China to
Boeing. Bloomberg has reported in the
past that China has been working on a
500 aircraft order from Boeing. So, that
could be what indeed the ambassador is
talking about. Elsewhere this morning, a
little bit of deal news breaking in the
past hour. Sera, the energy
infrastructure company in one of its
energy infrastructure portfolios, it
will be selling about 45% of it to
affiliates of KKR and the Canadian
Pension Plan. That deal will net them
about $10 billion. They'll get that in
cash equity, uh 47% of which at the
close, the next bit comes through the
year 2027. Finally, wrapping things up
with some earnings we got this morning.
That was from AutoZone, the auto
retailer. shares down 3.3%. It was the
fifth consecutive earnings that they
missed. Even with that miss though, the
CEO saying that they're doubling down,
opening more physical US stores, but
margins miss and their inventories were
higher. So, all in all, a negative
report for them. John
>> Danny, thank you. A few names to look at
going into the opening bout. The opening
bout 60 minutes away, 15 minutes after
opening bound, some important economic
data, the US PMIs at 9:45 Eastern time.
Then later on this afternoon, capping
off a busy day of Fed speak. We'll hear
from Fed chair Jay Pal speaking just
afternoon at 12:35 Eastern time with a
preview. Let's cross over to Mike McKe
for more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, I'm not sure
we're going to get a whole lot out of
Jay Powell today that we don't already
know because he just spoke a week ago
after the Fed meeting and he said the
Fed is at this point concerned about the
labor market and considering cutting
rates again. But check with us as we get
closer to the date, which would be
October 29th, because we want to see
more data and see how the economy
develops. What might be more interesting
today is Mickey Bowman's speech. You had
her up there on that graphic. Uh she
speaks at 9:00 in the morning and she
was perhaps the person on the board
closest to Steven Myron's views. Does
she agree with him that the neutral rate
has fallen significantly and the Fed
needs to play catch-up and cut rates a
lot going forward? Does she have an
estimate for the neutral rate? And how
much does she agree with Myron's uh
outlook going forward? Uh Powell has
said over and over again that we
shouldn't make policy by using the
neutral rate because you can't really
observe it. So he's probably going to be
talking much more about the data uh and
the data dependency the Fed has been on,
which of course is somewhat
backward-looking. So doesn't look like
we're going to have a anybody solving
the debate this time. It just looks like
we're divided and we're going to
continue that for some time.
>> Michael, have we got any reporting
whatsoever on just how well received or
not Governor Myron's argument was on the
committee last week?
>> It's about the same that uh we've been
reporting all along that people give him
credit for being a decent economist and
for making uh plausible arguments, but
they don't really believe what he's
saying. There are people uh Bowman who
might be one of them who would say that
yes we probably need to do more sooner
but in general the uh majority on the
Fed is at this point in a watch and wait
mode willing to cut rates but wanting
evidence that they need to do so.
>> Mike, thank you sir. Michael McKe look
out for Governor Bowman later on this
morning. Let's stick with the Federal
Reserve. Steven Stanley of Santandere
writing, "Chairman Pal seems frightened
that the economy could be on the cusp of
a surge in layoffs, but while new hiring
has slowed dramatically, layoffs are not
picking up." Steven joins us now for
more. Stephen, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Do you think race pricing is too
aggressive?
>> I would say it is. I mean, I I think
it's not outrageous for the rest of this
year, but there's a lot of easing also
priced in for 2026. Why do you think the
labor market is more solid than it
currently appears, especially given some
of the revisions in uh non-farm
payrolls?
>> Yeah, so I I would say a couple things.
The first one is I think that a lot of
the slowdown in job growth is a
reflection of changes that we've seen on
the supply side of the equation, right?
Just the slowdown in immigration. Um we
haven't seen a dramatic uh slackening in
things. I mean, the unemployment rate
has ticked up a little bit, but it's
still pretty close to where it's been
for the last year, year and a half. I
think the other point I would make and I
think this is the more important point
is that you you have to think about why
is the labor market slowing down and
when you listen to what companies are
saying they're not saying oh you know
we're getting ready for a recession
we're about to lay off a bunch of people
they're saying we're just we've put
ourselves on hold for a few months we're
waiting for policy certainty and once we
have that certainty we're going to
re-engage and I thought it was
interesting that we heard
from a couple of uh Fed bank presidents
yesterday suggesting that maybe firms
are are just getting to that point where
they're almost ready to re-engage
because we have seen a lot of the policy
uncertainty resolved at this point.
>> I think a big question is what does
re-engage mean? Does it mean invest in a
bot that can talk to another bot that
can then talk to another bot to tell it
what to do and then a robot will fulfill
the order or will it be actually hiring
people? Could you see a scenario where
you get a reaceleration of the US
economy without the labor market getting
materially more robust? Well, it
certainly depends on what sectors of the
economy are driving you, right? I mean,
if you're talking about just purely a
manufacturing revival, then that's not
going to generate a ton of jobs. Service
sector is still very labor intensive.
So, I think most parts of the service
sector, if they're strong there, you'll
see a good amount of hiring.
>> To Lisa's point though, how much are
companies just saying policy uncertainty
as an excuse for AI taking entry- level
jobs?
I think we are seeing
places where AI is having a big impact.
I think that you know there's been a lot
of talk recently I've written about this
um the weakness in the market for recent
college grads. Um and I think that's
certainly at least in some industries
one place where AI may be taking away
from uh from what would normally be
demand for for workers. Um but you know
we've seen you know I you can go back
200 years right we were an agricultural
economy and then we moved forward to a
manufacturing economy and a service
economy some would say now we're moving
to an information economy
technology is always eliminating certain
types of jobs but in the process it it
has always in the past generated new
jobs so you can't always predict what
those new jobs are going to be I'm not
on a on an aggregate level I'm not
worried that we're not going to have
enough jobs for people. But I do think
there's going to be some definitely some
some shifting around in the market.
>> How does the Fed discuss that? Because
they don't have a prescription for AI is
impact on the labor market.
>> No, the Fed can't really that's
something the Fed can't really control,
right? So the Fed uh has to stick to its
knitting. We have to keep inflation
close to 2%.
um and you know and and keep the the
labor market close to full employment
when there are supply side shocks to the
real economy that are beyond the Fed's
control. Um that makes the Fed's job
harder. Uh for sure.
>> Bit of a guessing game, but where have
you got neutral? Where do you think it
is?
>> Yeah, I I would I I'm more sympathy for
the high neutral camp. Okay. Um so I
maybe three and a quarter to three and a
half, somewhere in that range. And the
reason I make that I would make that
argument is that the economy has by and
large performed very well over the last
few years. I mean if you remember um at
the beginning of 2022 the funds rate is
at zero. Market participants
never had the funds rate getting back
above 2%. And the idea was if you got to
2% or higher the economy would fall
apart. We'd have a recession. Uh the
government couldn't fund itself. Um, you
know, there were all these dire things
that were going to happen and here we
are. We we had over a year at at over
5%. We've had over a year at 4%. The
economyy's done pretty well. And by the
way, financial conditions are
tremendously positive at this point. So,
it just doesn't feel like the Fed is
grossly restrictive at current rate
level.
>> I can tell you just to echo that, I
remember in 21 being on a call with Bill
Dudley and Muhammad Alerian and at the
time they were talking about the
prospect of getting rates back to five.
maybe we'd have to go back to five. I
remember just being in shock thinking if
we go back to five, what would happen to
markets? What would happen to the bond
market? And here we are. Yet here we
are. And Governor Myron saying we're two
percentage points too tight. Now, for an
individual yourself who believes that
maybe market pricing is too aggressive
for 26, I want to understand how you'd
respond if an incoming Fed chair,
someone nominated and confirmed, said
the same thing that Governor Myron said
this week that monetary policy was
roughly two percentage points too tight.
How would you respond to that? How would
you start to think about and recalibrate
your expectations for next year?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think that there's
there's two issues there. one is how
much um sway does one person have even
the chair and I I think the answer to
that is if someone comes in who is
grossly out of line with the consensus I
think it would be very hard to drag
everybody along. Um so I think that a a
super dovish chair would have some
influence on the path of policy but not
you know not just going to come in and
get their way. And then the second point
is how aggressive would the Fed be in
that sort of an environment? Would it be
let's uh jump first and ask questions
later or are we going to kind of take
things as they come and we're only going
to um we're only going to move as the
data dictate, right? And as long as
inflation is closer to 3% then to two, I
think you're going to see a lot of
caution on the committee. And we heard
that yesterday out of some of the more
hawkish members on the committee,
Hammock and Bastik and um and um
>> most of them but caution but that isn't
preventing them from cutting rates and
that the baseline right now is priced
into markets. You started by saying you
think it's actually pricing in too many
rate cuts and you think that there
actually will be fewer. Let's say they
do cut by an additional 125 basis points
and that the baseline of the committee
does see neutral at a lower level than
you do. How much greater is the risk of
of true reaceleration in inflation next
year? How underpriced is that
possibility?
>> Yeah. Um I mean I I I think it's a it's
a risk. I don't think it's uh a baseline
scenario for sure. uh you know as we
talked about with the labor market I
mean it's in my mind it's not a disaster
but it's certainly less overheated you
know if it's overheated at all it's much
different than it was say two years ago
um you know I don't see the we've got
the tariff impacts that still have to
flow through and you could imagine a
scenario in which
tariff related price hikes kind of kick
off something bigger um I I don't think
again I don't think that That's a high
probability scenario, but it's a
possibility. It's something the Fed
wants to guard against and something
they've talked about a lot. Um, so I I
mean I I don't think that we should be
um, you know, just uh, pulling our hair
out that inflation is about to take off
again. Uh, but at the same time,
inflation has proven to be stubbornly
high. Uh, and I think the Fed needs to,
in my view at least, needs to take that
into account and be cautious in moving
rates down. the closer you get to to the
Fed's view of neutral, the I think the
higher the bar is going to be for for
cutting again. And you heard that a
little bit yesterday. It's like, okay, I
was willing to go along with last week's
move, but I'm not sure I'm going to go
along with another one. And then
there'll be others who will say, well, I
could go for one more, but I don't know
about two more. Um, you look at the the
range of longer run dots that we got
last Wednesday, there are 19 people on
the FOMC, there were 11 different
answers for where neutral is, ranging
from 2 and 5/8 to 3 and 78, right? So,
as you start to get into that zone, more
people are going to get uh uncomfortable
if you keep cutting.
>> We're getting closer to that zone. Every
meeting between now and May gets a whole
lot harder potentially and not easier.
Stephen, appreciate your time. Thanks
for being here. Thank you, Steven
Stanley there of Santandere with an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us
here, Jihara. Hey yara.
>> Hi, John. US President Donald Trump is
in New York to address the UN General
Assembly later today at 9:50 a.m.
Eastern. Trump is scheduled for high
stakes bilateral talks with leaders from
Ukraine and the EU, as well as a
multilateral meeting on post-war
governance in Gaza with leaders from the
Middle East and beyond.
In an interview with Times of India, JP
Morgan CEO Jaime Diamond says he hopes
President Trump and Indian Prime
Minister Narendra Modi can reach a trade
deal. Plus, when asked about the Trump
administration's steep hike on H1B visa
fees, Diamond said he will be engaging
with stakeholders and policy makers,
adding that the move quote came out of
the blue. And Hong Kong has issued its
third highest storm warning as super
typhoon Ragasa approaches after lashing
the Philippines. As you can see there,
it is equivalent to a category 4
hurricane according to the local weather
agency and has caused major flight
disruptions, closed schools and
businesses. It could potentially be the
most damaging storm in the region since
2018. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
David Rubenstein of the Carile Group
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
The opening B's about 43 minutes away
going into that opening B. Equity
futures totally unchanged on the S&P.
Likewise on the NASDAQ 100 on the
Russell on the small caps up by 0.2. In
the bond market, yields lower by a
single basis point on a 2-year bond this
morning. 359 on 10 413 yields down about
a basis point around an hour from now.
The focus on the economic data talked
loads about the Fed speak. Can we just
talk about the data? I think these PMIs
are important to get a flavor of how
things start to build coming out of the
summer.
>> Yeah. Especially because European PMIs
came out stronger than expected and if
substantially so at a certain point are
we seeing the reaceleration? Is it
global? Is the US the epicenter of it or
is it not? And I think that that's sort
of an interesting question especially
when you look at the currency and then
gold and then you wonder what's going on
there.
>> The gold rocketing exactly 40% plus move
year to date. Amazing.
>> It is it is I mean and how much does it
continue given the fact that central
banks continue their investments. Let's
get you a sneak peek of the next week,
including what you can look for for
today at 9:45 Eastern time. As I said,
PMI data coming out. Then just after
that, President Trump speaking at the UN
General Assembly. Later on this
afternoon, comments from Fed Chair J.
Pal. On Wednesday, Fed President Mary
Dailyaly is speaking. On Thursday,
another round of jobless claims, plus we
get some results from Costco. Finally,
PCE data to round out the week. on
Friday going into the weekend. Before we
get to the weekend, make sure to watch
the latest episode of Bloomberg Wealth
at 9:00 p.m. Eastern time as David
Rubenstein sits down with Wellington
Management CEO Gene Hines. David
Rubenstein, the co-chairman of the
Carile Group and host of Bloomberg
Wealth joins us now for more. David,
welcome to the program, sir. We've got a
range of topics to work through. First
of all, given the Federal Reserve and
chair Jay Pal is in focus later on this
afternoon, a man who of course you know
well, we'd love your reaction to the
latest pressure on the Federal Reserve
and the daylight, the division within
the committee right now and the daylight
between Governor Myron coming out of the
White House and everybody else. David,
what's your reaction to that as it
builds through the summer and as we
enter the fall?
>> Well, the Fed did what most people
thought it was going to do, which is to
have a rate cut of of 25 basis points.
Uh, President Trump didn't applaud that.
He didn't criticize it either. I presume
he wanted a bigger rate cut, but
generally he was okay with it for based
on what I've heard. Um, but I think he
would like more rate cuts. Whether the
Fed will do more, time will tell. JPAL
likes to look at the data and I think he
got enough u favorable attention for the
50 the 25 basis point rate cut such that
he's not under pressure immediately to
go do another 25 right away. But I
suspect when the Fed meets again, uh,
another 25 basis cut, uh, would probably
be on the table. Whether it will happen
or not, I don't know. Depends on who's
on the Fed, of course. As you know,
there is Supreme Court litigation about
who's on the Fed right now, and we just
don't know who's actually going to be on
the u the rate cutting committee when
when the next Fed meeting occurs.
>> David, how closely are you tracking the
replacement, the process to replace
Fetch Hal, and how credible do you think
that process is?
I think the president has largely made
up his mind. I obviously can't speak for
the president and I haven't talked to
him about it, but I suspect that there
are very few people that he is
considering at this point. He knows all
the people who are likely to be
candidates pretty well. And I think it's
down to one or two people, but I think
he probably has made up his mind. Be my
guess. I don't really know for sure. And
I think those are people who are likely
to do pretty much what he he's
interested in doing. So, I don't think
he's looking for any surprises by
picking somebody he doesn't really know.
>> David, you're in a wonder.
>> And JPAL will stay Jal's term is not up
until May. And Jay's made it very clear
that he wants to stay through the end of
that term, which is May of 26, and then
he'll be gone, and then you'll have a
new chairman. Presumably, that person
will be confirmed before uh J Pal
actually leaves. One of the questions
for the Federal Reserve as well as
economists more broadly is just whether
this economy is truly reacelerating or
whether we are facing something uh that
is more pernicious particularly led by
the labor market based on your position
the hat that you wear at the Carile
Group and the portfolio companies are
you seeing more signs of reaceleration
or are you seeing more signs of
something that's more tepid
>> the biggest surprise to date is that the
impact of uh the tariffs has not yet
been felt in the economy in any
meaningful way. When tariffs were
imposed, people thought this would
produce runaway inflation. It hasn't
happened yet. That's in part because the
tariffs haven't gone fully into effect.
And in part because I think some of the
US importers are not passing along the
costs. But probably it will take us 6
months or maybe even a year before we
know the true impact of the tariffs. One
thing I would like to point out though
is the tariffs, whether you like them or
not, are now going to be part of our
economic system. And this is what I
mean. When the when the big beautiful
bill passed the Congress, it assumed
over the next 10 years or so we'd have
roughly additional $2.2 trillion of
federal indebtedness, 2.2 trillion over
10 years. But that assumed about $4
trillion of tariff income coming in. So,
if the tariffs were to go away, as some
people would like them to be, uh, going
away, uh, you're going to have another
$4 trillion of additional federal
indebtedness. So, we're in a difficult
position. If you don't like the tariffs,
you've got to come up with some other
way to get $4 trillion of revenue into
the system where you're going to have a
gigantic increase in the debt.
>> David, you were talking about how this
is a different system, right, where
tariffs are a part of it. We also are
talking uh we've talked a lot about how
the government has taken a stake in
Intel had a more direct influence over a
number of different technology
companies. When you talk to the heads of
wealth for you yourself at Carile, how
much is it difficult to really adjust or
change the way that you invest around
some of these changed uh policy
perspectives?
I don't think it's really changed that
much because right now most things that
uh people like Carla or Blackstone or
Apollo or KKR are investing in are not
directly affected by what the president
is doing. There are a couple very
visible deals that the president has
taken on behalf of the US government
some stakes in or had some uh
modifications on the deal that was on
the table but generally I don't think
it's had a big impact. Right now the
investing world is in reasonably good
shape. Inflation is u is not a gigantic
problem at the moment. Uh US growth
seems to be in in reasonable shape. Um
clearly there are always some challenges
in the economy. I think most investors
would like to have more certainty about
where the Fed is going in terms of
interest rates. But generally I don't
think people are holding back on doing
deals at the moment. In terms of the
stakes that the federal government's
taking, presumably they will all be put
in some kind of sovereign wealth fund or
something of that type at some point.
The US government doesn't have a
sovereign wealth fund. In effect, our
sovereign wealth fund over the years has
been our printing press because we've in
effect been able to print all the
dollars we really needed and effect
substitute that for a sovereign wealth
fund. But I think the president seems to
be interested in developing a sovereign
wealth fund and the secretary of
treasury and others have talked about it
and presumably some of the stakes like
the Intel stake and others will
ultimately go into some kind of
sovereign wealth fund.
>> David, if I could just quickly pick up
on that comment you made earlier about
Jay Powell will be gone. His
governorship ends in 2028. This is
someone you know really well. Do you
think he will leave after he's no longer
chair or do you think he's going to
stick around?
>> I don't want to speak for him. Uh but my
guess is that he will follow the pattern
of every other chairman of the Federal
Reserve, which is when their
chairmanship is over, they depart from
the Federal Reserve. Yes, he could
theoretically stay longer, but once
you've been the chairman of an
organization for a long time, it's very
difficult to stay around as a regular
board member. So, no, I am I believe,
but I don't want to be making news about
it, but I believe based on everything I
know that he will step down as chair and
step down as a board member when his
term as chair is over.
>> David, you've been generous with your
time. Thanks for your time this morning.
David Rubenstein there of the Carlile
Group on the Federal Reserve and a whole
lot more.
>> You know, his comments on the sovereign
wealth fund were very interesting. the
idea that the Intel stake and some
others could end up in a sovereign
wealth fund that we don't yet have and
that so far the sovereign wealth fund
has essentially been the dollar and the
printing press and how much that's going
to shift to real investments in
companies. That's something I want to
wrap my head around a little bit.
>> We've asked the administration this.
I've been in the room and they say that
that's not really the direction of
travel right now. But David is right.
There's been tons of speculation around
this and potentially this is what they
are trying to do. When it comes to Jay
Powell, he didn't want to make news, but
Powell has yet to tell the
administration he's leaving.
>> I know. And this is where some of the
angst is right now when it comes to
Treasury Secretary and the president and
how they're thinking about the Fed next
year.
>> They want to put the chess pieces in
certain places. Still work trying to
work out if there is a free place when
Chairman Pal finishes his term as Fed
chair in May.
>> Yeah. And I wonder why he isn't going to
commit to that essentially right now.
He's focused on the current ahead. He's
not going to mention this later today.
>> It's going to be a conversation for the
new year. I imagine going to wait until
then. We'll see. Coming up tomorrow,
here's the lineup for you. Peter chair
of Academy Securities, Neil Data of
Renmack, Barbara Reinhardt of Voya
Investment Management, and Nathan Sheets
of City, the chairman of the Federal
Reserve. Coming up a little bit later,
12:35 Eastern time. Look out for that.
From New York City, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]